  As the 2020 Tokyo Olympics approaches, Tiger Woods, as reported by Reuters, is planning to add another golden chapter to his legendary career as he targets great victories in the Tokyo Olympics. It was in 2016 that Golf returned to the Olympics Games after a 112-year absence but Woods, who dominated golf sport in the first decade of the 21st century, missed its return through injury. For him, making the Olympic team is a big goal, the 15-time Major winner told Reuters in an emailed interview. “I don’t see myself having too many opportunities other than next year. “Four years from now, at the next Olympic Games, I’ll be 48-years-old. To be one of the top Americans at that age is going to be tough. “I went to my first Olympic Games when it was in Los Angeles (1984). So now to have the opportunity to be a part of the Olympics, because golf in my lifetime wasn’t a part of the Olympics, is an important aspect for us and the growth of the game. “The game has become so global, and so reaching, that I think the Olympic Games is a great extension of that and I’d like to be a part of it.” Tiger Woods will get a taste of golf-crazy Japan when he competes in ‘The Challenge: Japan Skins’ on October 21. Woods will take part in a high-stakes challenge at the Accordia Golf Narashino Country Club in Chiba alongside Rory McIlroy, Jason Day and Hideki Matsuyama. The extravaganza, which will in part be floodlit, is being televised globally by GOLFTV and will be played under the ‘skins’ format. The format, designed to encourage aggressive play from start to finish, forces players to win a hole outright to take a “skin” with tied holes resulting in a “push” of the skin to the next hole. Woods, who won the Masters earlier this year to end an 11-year wait for his 15th Major, says he is thrilled to be back at the top of the sport after injuries caused four back surgeries between 2014 and 2017. “To be able to have played the last couple of years after where I was (with injury) and to have two wins in my last two years – I definitely would not have foreseen that at the time, pre-surgery. “So I’m just excited and ecstatic to be able to participate in golf at this level again. I missed it. I missed competing against these guys. “The interesting thing about now is that when I was out, there was a whole generation of guys that I didn’t compete against. “Whether it was Jordan (Spieth), JT (Justin Thomas), Bryson (Dechambeau) or Patrick (Reed) these guys were just coming out and I missed that. “Now they’re established and I’m coming back into the game, so it’s been fun to compete against those guys, not to mention some of the older guys.” Most of the Nigerian Olympic spectating youths, who use mobile betting services offered by NetBet Nigeria believe that if he is to realise his Olympic dreams, it seems likely Woods will be competing against players from this new generation to earn a spot in Tokyo. In the same vein, on October 14, Roger Federer confirmed his participation in next year’s Olympic Games in Tokyo and said on Monday that he had listened to his heart before making the decision. “At the end of the day, my heart decided I would love to play the Olympic Games again,” Federer told reporters during a promotional event for his sponsor, Uniqlo, in Tokyo. “I’ve been debating with my team for a few weeks now, months, what I should do in the summer after Wimbledon and before the US Open (in 2020),” Federer, who will turn 39 during the Games, added. “I carried the flag twice for Switzerland in Athens and Beijing. I’ve got a gold and a silver, and I would love to play again. So, I’m very excited.” The Swiss, 38-year-old, competed in the first of four Olympic Games at Sydney in 2000 and won the doubles gold partnering Stan Wawrinka in 2008 and a silver in singles in 2012. He missed the 2016 Olympics due to a knee injury. Federer will attempt to win a singles gold medal at the July 24 to August 9 Games, the only major prize the 20-times Grand Slam winner has yet to win.