 A bank staff, Sunday Blessing, has been arraigned before a Magistrate Court in Odigbo area of Ondo State for allegedly N2.2m. Blessing was dragged to court alongside a pastor,  Effoing Aneiedi, after allegedly defrauding Grace and Mercy Microfinance Bank in Ajegunle at Ore area of the state. SaharaReporters gathered that the duo had committed the offence between June and February 2018. The two men were also accused of felony with stealing after conniving with Inyans Aniekan Gibson and Atinuke Kehinde now at large to defraud the bank. The accused persons were brought before the court presided over by Mr. T. Ajayi on two-count charge of felony and stealing. The  charge sheet read in part, “That you, Sunday Blessing, Effiong Aneiedi, Inyans Aniekan Gibson and one Kehinde Atinuke at large between June 2018 to February 2019 at Grace and Mercy Microfinance Bank at Ajegunle. Ore did conspire to commit felony to wit stealing/fraud and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 516 of the Criminal Code Cap 37, Volume 1, Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria, 2006. “That you, Sunday Blessing, Effiong Aneiedi, Inyans Aniekan Gibson and one Kehinde Atinuke at large on the same date, time and place did steal and defraud N2, 285, 000.00 property of Grace and Mercy Microfinance Bank at Ore. "The offence committed was contrary to section 383(2) and punishable under section 390(9) and 434 of the Criminal Code cap 37 Volume 1 Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria 2006." The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges. Police prosecutor, Inspector Usifoh James, said evidences showed that the four men conspired to steal the bank's fund. He, however, told the court that he had three witnesses to testify in the case but applied for a date to enable him study the case file. Counsel to the defendants, Victor Akinfe, applied for the bail of the defendants in liberal terms and assured that his clients would not jump bail. However, Magistrate Ajayi granted the accused persons bail in the sum of N1m each with one surety each in like sum. He said the surety must be resident within the jurisdiction and must be confirmed by the court before adjourning the case until December 11, 2019 for trial.