  Civic Media Lab’s Africana Migration project has been announced as one of the top three projects at the 2019 Commonwealth Digital Challenge organised by the Thomson Foundation. The Commonwealth Digital Challenge, which is in its second year, is designed for young people in commonwealth countries to create digital innovation and tools that can advance media work. Out of numerous entries across the Commonwealth countries, there was an all-Nigerian final shortlist, which gives credence to the number of young, creative and tech-savvy media entrepreneurs in the country. The three entries were the Africana Migration Project - a news agency-based model aimed at countering the myths and misinformation surrounding African migration presented by Habib Oladapo; REACT Mobile News – an innovative attempt to use social media and mobile technology to counter fake news and engage young people in consuming up-to-date, factual news presented by  Olayinka Iyinolokan and the eventual winner, the Sexual Violence Reporting Platform aimed at offering a secure, online space where those affected by sexual abuse can document crimes committed against them for independent investigators. All three finalists received mentoring sessions from successful entrepreneurs, who helped them shape their products and increase its potential for success. The mentors were Kate Adams, Director of Operations and Special Projects for Nesta; Sarah Drinkwater, Director of Tech and Society Solutions Lab at Omidyar Networks, and Arshia Gratiot, Founder and CEO of Third Space Auto Ltd. Nigel Baker, Chief Executive of Thomson Foundation, said, "All three finalists provide great examples of how media can be used as a force for good in society." A Buckingham Palace spokesperson said, "We offer our congratulations to all of those shortlisted for the Commonwealth Digital Challenge 2019 and thanks to the judges for their time and support." The winner of the challenge, Patrick was motivated by his own experience of being sexually abused as a child. His platform will create an identity-protected space for those affected by sexual violence. According to him, the project will help end “culture of silence around the issue of sexual violence, due to the victims’ fears of being stigmatized or harmed by the abuser.” Patrick will visit the UK in early 2020 as guest of The Elizabeth R Media Fund to receive expert advice and training to enable him to implement a reporting platform which is a secure, user-friendly and robust enough to inspire the confidence of users and the legal profession. The other two entries were also commended by the judges and the Thomson Foundation has offered to advise both candidates to help both bring their ideas to fruition. The Commonwealth Digital Challenge is supported by the Elizabeth R Media Fund and administered by the Thomson Foundation on behalf of Buckingham Palace. The Challenge is open to Commonwealth-based journalists, media managers and media entrepreneurs aged 18-30.