 Boluwatife Adekunle, the female undergraduate of the Federal University of Technology Akure, Ondo State, who was physically assaulted by two ladies and a guy all said to be student of the institution, has given more insight into why she was attacked. The young lady, who says she wants justice served, told SaharaReporters on Tuesday in Akure, the state capital, that she was attacked by her colleagues for revealing how one of their boyfriends forcefully tried to have an affair with her. Adekunle revealed that she was assaulted in one of the private hostels outside the school campus by the group in a bid to be disgraced among fellow students. She said, “The whole issue started few weeks ago. I and one of the ladies in the video called 'Faith' were roommates in a hostel outside campus. “Her boyfriend began asking me out but I felt it was not proper for me to date him. I rejected his advances. “But instead of him to leave me alone, the guy kept disturbing me, so I had to report him to Faith because I don't want trouble.



See Also






CRIME
FUTA Female Student Brutalised For Calling Colleagues 'Runs Girls' 
2 Comments
2 Days Ago “Before then, I had been having some issues with Faith as she had been living a wayward life on campus which I didn't like. “From that point, she started seeing me as talking bad about her to people around our area. “During this period, her boyfriend kept pestering me to date him but I refused. “Instead of Faith to caution her boyfriend, she accused me of planning to sleep with her man. “On the day that I was assaulted, she invited me to a room in one of the hostels and boyfriend and other ladies were inside the place already. “Immediately I entered the place, they locked the door and asked me to kneel down while the guy was asking if he ever asked me for a date. “Since I refused to kneel down, they began to beat me and also tried to strip me naked. “They used a stick to hit me on my head and punched me on my face. The guy used horse whip to flog me several times. “They said they would make sure they disgraced me on campus, I pleaded with them but they refused and I was about to faint when they stopped beating me. “As I speak, I feel pains all over my body due to the beatings. Their plan was to kill me. I want them arrested and face the consequences of their action.” While condemning the attack on her daughter, the victim’s mother, Mrs Florence Adekunle, said they wanted justice over the matter. She said, “I was in the church on Sunday when her brother called me that they saw Boluwatife in a video and she was beaten up. “I can't imagine how friends would treat a fellow student like this. I'm aware that the school authority and even the police have taken up the matter, all the same we want justice.” Following the incident and the widespread criticism that greeted it, the management of FUTA had announced the indefinite suspension on the students seen in the viral video assaulting Boluwatife. Spokesperson for the institution, Adegbenro Adebanjo, confirmed this in a statement in Akure on Monday. He identified the names of those suspended as Popoola Olaniyi Agboola (300L), Oluwadare Faith Tobiloba (200L), Nandi Yohanna Jessica (200L), Ajuwon Tolani Emmanuella (100L), Emmanuel Funmilayo Taiwo (100L) and Alao Olabimpe Cecilia (100L). According to him, the university would not tolerate any form of indiscipline among students of the institution. Adebanjo said, “As a consequence of their suspension, they are precluded from all academic and related activities indefinitely and barred from the university and its precincts forthwith. “At the conclusion of ongoing investigations, the law of the university as contained in the handbook and oath of matriculation which all students are made to sign and subscribe to, will be visited on those found culpable.” Ondo State Commissioner of Police, Adie Undie, told SaharaReporters that all the students involved would be invited for interrogation. He said, “We have started investigation on the matter. I have asked my men to brief me continuously on the findings.”