  Farooq Kperogi, a critic and commentator, has claimed that fourrelatives of Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari are actively workingin Aso Rock, transmuting from being paupers to enjoying a presidentialtreatment.Many Nigerians are of the view that nepotism is a form of corruption.Kperogi, a professor of Journalism and Emerging Media at KennesawState University (in the United States) in a Twitter thread, said thequartet had transmuted from paupers before President Buhari'sassumption of office in 2015 to persons of affluence.Kperogi listed the names of the four as Abdulkarim Dauda, Sabiu'Tunde' Yusuf, Dauda 'Zeze' Habu, and Musa Haro."I've confirmed these names from multiple sources in Daura and thePresidential Villa: 1. Abdulkarim Dauda. He is Buhari’s Personal ChiefSecurity Officer (PCSO). Like Mamman Daura, he is Buhari’s nephew. Hisfather, Dauda Daura, is Buhari's half-brother from the same father. Heis de facto president Mamman Daura’s full biological brother."I exposed a recent secret memo Buhari sent to the Nigeria Police(where Abdulkarim is officially employed as Commissioner of Policeafter 3 unnaturally rapid promotions in three years) instructing it tocircumvent time-honored public service rules & extend his service till2023 even though he should've retired this year on account of being ind police for 35 yrs," he stated.The tweet continued, "2. Sabiu “Tunde” Yusuf. He's Buhari’s, PrivateSecretary. Don’t be deceived by the “Tunde” in his name. It’s just anickname, probably inspired by Tunde Idiagbon, Buhari’s deputy when hewas a military dictator. Sabiu is the son of Mamman Daura’s fullbiological sister by the name of Hajia Halima (more popularly known as“Hajja Madam” in Daura) who died last year. As you should know by now,Mamman Daura’s sister is Buhari’s niece since their father (DaudaDaura) is Buhari’s much older half-brother."Sabiu, who is in his 30s, is one of the most powerful people inNigeria today. He determines who sees and who doesn’t see Buhari. OnlyMamman Daura and Abba Kyari can overrule him. By several accounts, heis now a billionaire, although he had no formal work experience beforeBuhari became president. He used to sell recharge cards in Daura until2015!"Tweeting further, Kperogi noted: "3. Dauda “Zeze” Habu. He's SeniorPersonal Assistant to Abba Kyari, the de facto acting president/VP.His father, Habu Kurma, is Mamman Daura's younger brother. (Kurma isthe Hausa word for deaf. He’s called Kurma because he’s deaf, but thisisn’t derogatory in Hausa culture where people are habituallyidentified by their disability)."4. Musa Haro. He is PA (Domestic Affairs) to Buhari. His mother,Hajia Kwalla, is Buhari’s biological sister. Hajia Kwalla is a twin.Her twin sister is called Hajia Amadodo. My friends from Daura told melast week that Musa “ just bribed the Emir of Daura to be conferredwith the traditional title of Dan Madamin Daura."Kperogi mentioned two other names of Buhari's relatives currentlyserving in his regime.He explained in his tweet, "Bonus: 5. Ahmed Rufa'i Zakari. He'sSpecial Adviser to the President on Infrastructure. He isn’t Buhari’sbiological relative, but he is his relative by marriage and informaladoption. Ahmed’s mother is Mrs. Amina Zakari, the controversial INECcommissioner who, along with compromised INEC chairman Mahmood Yakubu,helped Buhari to rig the 2019 election."Buhari’s older sister was married to Amina Zakari’s father, the lateAlhaji Hussaini Adamu. Apart from being Buhari’s in-law, the lateHussaini Adamu also raised Buhari for some time after Buhari’s fatherdied, so he was, in a sense, Buhari’s adoptive father."Speaking further, the vocal critic of Buhari's regime said, in thetweet: "6. The House of Representatives member representing theDaura/Sandamu/MaiAdua Federal constituency by the name of FatihuMuhammad is the son of Buhari’s older brother by the name of Muhammadu"Mamman" Danbafale."Fatihu became the APC candidate without “proper primary,” as a sourcetold me. Also remember that Buhari created an entire ministry for hisdabino-stealing former mistress, Ms. Sadiya Umar Farouq. I doubt thatthere’s any parallel in Nigeria’s history for the magnitude andseverity of nepotism and personalization of power that we’re seeingnow."