Today, Nigerians woke up to the news that their first-ever submissionfor best international feature Oscar consideration, “Lionheart” hasbeen disqualified by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.The panel said the movie had "too much English dialogue".The movie which was directed by ace Nollywood actress, GenevieveNnaji, according to the Los Angeles Times ran afoul of the academyrule which states that an International feature film category musthave “a predominantly non-English dialogue track.”“Lionheart” is among the 10 African films that were submitted forOscar consideration this year.“This isn’t the first time the academy has disqualified a foreign filmfrom consideration for having too much English dialogue; in recentyears, the 2015 Afghan film, Utopia, and the 2007 Israeli movie, TheBand’s Visit, were disqualified for the same reason,” Los AngelesTimes reports.  Since this news broke, there have been arguments for and against the decision by Oscar.Giving her reaction, an American filmmaker,  Ava Duvernay wondered whythe movie was disqualified when the official language of Nigeria wasEnglish.In a tweet on her official Twitter handle she wrote: “To the academy(Oscar), You disqualified Nigeria’s first-ever submission for BestInternational Feature because its in English. But English is theofficial language of Nigeria. Are you barring this country from evercompeting for an Oscar in its official language?”In her response to Ava Duvernay’s tweet, Genevieve Nnaji said: “I amthe director of Lionheart. This movie represents the way we speak asNigerians. This includes English which acts as a bridge between the500+ languages spoken in our country; thereby making us one Nigeria.“It’s no different to how French connects communities in former Frenchcolonies. We did not choose who colonized us. As ever, this film andmany like it is proudly Nigerian.”For Nigerian actor, Deyemi, he chose to see the positive side, saying:“I can only imagine how many more views Lionheart will have on Netflixby the end of today! Anyhow you look at it this is a win! Staywinning.”“To think that some Nigerians actually complained that Lionheart hadtoo much Igbo! Only for the Oscars to think it has too much English?Total BS! Honestly, I don’t even care for the Oscars at this point!They might as well change the name back to 'Foreign language'," aTwitter user, Steven Chuks, stated. 



See Also









Sahara Reporters
UNDERCOVER: With Just N70, You Can Buy A Pirated Copy Of Genevieve's 'Lionheart'
1 Comment
9 Months Ago





Another Twitter user, Britain Danielle, said, “Something about thisdoesn't seem fair. The film was disqualified because it's mostly inEnglish. Meanwhile, the official language of Nigeria is....English.”