Yinka Odumakin
SaharaReporters Media  Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, on Tuesday said Nigerians would resist any attempt by President Muhammadu Buhari to subvert the constitution and attempt a third term in office. The group, which spoke shortly after its general meeting in Akure, Ondo State, said President Buhari's body language showed that he had hidden agenda of third term in office by 2023. Speaking shortly after their meeting, National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, Yinka Odumakin, said the introduction of the hate speech bill at the National Assembly by the Senate Deputy Chief Whip, Sabi Abdullahi, was part of a larger plan by President Buhari to seek a third term in office. Odumakin said that even though Buhari had denounced the rumour of his third term agenda, the President can never be trusted due to his failed promises in the past. He said, "The meeting took serious note of the rumoured plans to subvert the constitution of Nigeria to allow President Buhari to have a third term in office. “This was followed by the President who has a maximum of possible eight years in office telling the country he was going to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in 10 years. “To douse the tension the rumoured plot is generating, the President made a denial a few days ago which we took with a pinch of salt because it is not the first time politicians would pursue what they are denying in Nigeria swearing with Allah/God. “We have not forgotten that Buhari told this country in 2011 that he would do only one term if he became President. He is now on a second term. “He also promised Nigerians in 2015 that he would not have the office of the First Lady as President. He was mute when the wife issued an order that she must be addressed as First Lady and he has gone ahead to appoint six aides to that office. “With the National Assembly in the pocket, the only hurdle left to change that provision would be two-thirds of Houses of Assembly and we have seen the President holding a meeting of 36 Speakers. “And shortly after this meeting, an APC member in Ebonyi State approached a Federal High Court to compel the National Assembly to remove the constitutional impediments against third term for presidents and governors. “We have seen this fire before for this smoke not to be strange to us. “Afenifere, therefore calls on Nigerians to be vigilant and thwart any attempt to take the country for a ride once again.” 