  Mixed reactions have trailed a viral video showing a female student of Babcock University have sexual intercourse with a guy believed to be her lover. The school confirmed that while the young lady was a 300-level student of the Department of Accounting, the young man was an ex-student of the institution, who had been expelled in February for an act of grievous misconducts. In a statement issued by its Director of Communication and Marketing, Joshua Suleiman, Babcock maintained that it would continue to maintain high moral standards for quality education. The statement reads partly, “The place where the immoral act took place, according to her written statement, was at St Bridget Hospital, Abeokuta, Ogun State, where the boy had been undergoing rehabilitation for different destructive addictions. “According to the girl, the incident took place in April this year during school vacation when she visited the boy at the hospital. The act did not take place at Babcock University. “The university remains committed to highest moral standards, and will remain a standard bearer for quality education in character, learning in service to humanity. “We are happy to be saddled with this challenge as an institution because it propels us to contribute to the greatness of this nation, and the security of a bright future for children.” But reacting to the incident especially the response of the university authorities to the matter, rights lawyer, Inebehe Effiong, questioned the grounds upon which the school decided to expel the female student captured in the leaked sex video. He asked, “Does the university regulations forbid students from engaging in sexual intercourse without any exception? “Does Babcock University have the jurisdiction to punish or question her students who indulge in sexual intercourse outside the territory of the institution? “Did Babcock University expel her for engaging in sexual intercourse or for the fact that the sexual intercourse came to public light? “Can this student be punished for a viral video on the Internet which she neither published nor consented to its publication? “Can the university validly exercise disciplinary control over the actions of her student that took place off campus during the school's vacation period? “Was this girl afforded fair hearing given the summary manner that the case against her was determined?” Kayode Ogundamisi, a rights activist, also questioned the expulsion of the lady in the video. He said, “On what grounds did Babcock University expel the sex video couples if the act did not take place in the university and was during the holiday?” In his reacting, JJ Omojuwa, said, “Babcock’s reaction to the video was to allegedly expel the student. Our sense of justice is punishment, not reformation. If the school is meant to build character, why do they expel those whose character they find short? Nothing in that video warrants anyone losing three years. “There are options besides expulsion: 1. Give her a chance to transfer her units elsewhere. 2. Suspend her for a term or session. The same girl will make something of her life someday and the school’s reaction would have been an extra hurdle towards getting there. “If a school expels your child for having sex in school, sue the school for failing in their promise to develop his or her character.” Abayomi Shogunle, a Twitter user, said, “My view as an Educational Systems Administration scholar: expelling this lady is injustice. “Two adults consensual sex is not an “immoral act”. This show of love took place outside school during vacation, no insignia of Babcock University in the video. Women group, stand up for her.” Twitter user, @lovedaisy04, said, “Babcock University have no right to expel this girl, since the incident didn't take place within the school premises. “She have the right to have sex. This kind of unnecessary expulsions in Nigerian private universities should be stopped.” Meanwhile, people have been offering to help with free legal service and also support the young lady’s education. Another Twitter user, Jake Okechukwu Effodu, said, “Just catching up with this Babcock University story. “So the public embarrassment is not enough, the school had to expel her? Please if anyone knows the girl personally, let them reach out. My friends and I are committing to get her into another school.” 