David Obebadol, a commercial motorcycle rider in Bayelsa  State on Friday sent a protest letter to the authorities of the Nigerian Army over an assault on him by a military personnel identified as Lance Corporal John Efele attached to Shell Petroleum Development Company, Kolo Creek Flow Station. According to the letter written by counsel to the victim, Aluzu Augustine, the authorities of the Nigerian Army had been “dancing” over the plight of David Obebadol with the claim that the accused is suffering from mental instability. Augustine stated in the letter that the Nigerian Army had been given a one-month ultimatum to compensate the victim for his rights which was violated by Efele.  In the letter, Obebadol is seeking a compensation of ₦150m among other things. The letter reads, "We are privy to the reply of the Nigerian Army herein referred to as "the Army" to our client through the National Human Rights Commission in Bayelsa State in a letter dated October 17, 2019 with reference number 16/BOE/EI/300/24 in which the Army acknowledged gross human rights violation of our client on June 13, 2019 by a soldier under its employ. "The Army further states that the soldier had a history of mental instability. "It is clear from the said letter that the Army is dancing on the plight of our client in their bid to cover up the act of gross unprofessionalism by Lance Corporal John Efele under the blanket statement of "mental instability" with no specification as to the exact type of mental illness he is suffering from. "It is based on the above that it is now pertinent to put certain facts in proper perspectives." Efele had violently assaulted the victim with a razor blade, cutting the scalp of his head and deliberately inflicting injuries on his head and other vital parts of his body.  Before cutting the scalp of the victim's head, Obebadol was ordered to sit on the floor by another Army officer at the SPDC Kolo Creek Flow station. They were both alleged to have poured water all over the victim's body and subjected him to severe flogging at the same time with a cable wire.  The victim was admitted at FMC Yenagoa where he underwent medical treatment at his own expense.  The Army, however, denied the involvement of the soldiers deployed to the SPDC facility at Kolo Creek Flow Station in the physical abuse.