   The leadership of the All Progressives Congress is leaving nothing to chance ahead of a court judgment on Orji Uzor Kalu, former governor of Abia State, who is facing corruption charges by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. The public pressure and criticisms have made it difficult and impossible for the office of Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abukabar Malami, to enter Nolie prosique and withdraw the charges against Kalu in the case. The leadership of the party has since commenced mobilisation of possible force to pile pressure on Justice Mohammed Idris for a favourable judgment come December 2. Kalu is being tried alongside his company, Slok Nigeria Limited; and Udeh Udeogu, who was Director of Finance and Accounts at the Abia State Government House in an alleged fraud of N7.65bn during Kalu’s tenure as governor. Kalu, who crossed to the APC prior to the 2019 general election, contested for the Abia West Senatorial District position. Justice Idris had fixed judgment in the matter for December 2 and since then all mercenaries of the party had been deployed to reach the judge for favourable consideration. SaharaReporters gathered that a top leader of the party has been contacted and he is pulling his weight around the case. It was said that Justice Idris is being put in a very tight and difficult position. We are leaving no stone unturned in preventing an embarrassing judgment from that judge. "Orji Kalu has invested heavily in the party and it's time to the party to show appreciation for his service and investments,” said sources close to the parties. Another source in the office of the Court of Appeal President confirmed the pressure on the President of the) who has been left with no option than to reach the judge for understanding and her predicament. Justice Idris is said to have rebuffed all entreaties considering the amount of pressure on Justice Idris. “Monday is still a long time to have the judge to concede pressure and consider the request. “The party leadership are equally in earnest search for other possible contacts to the judge other than President of the Court of Appeal. “Whichever way the pendulum swings, the public will know by Monday, December 2 when the judgment is expected to be delivered,” the source said.