 A 13-year-old girl, Treasure Osiobe, who was allegedly raped by her stepfather, one Sunday Ojo, and left for dead in Delta State, have cried out for help to clear her hospital bill of N1.8m. The victim, who is still being held by the management of Lily Hospital, Warri, Delta State, over unpaid hospital bills after she was resuscitated to life after seven days in coma, told SaharaReporters how she was beaten, drowned in a bucket of water and raped by her stepfather on October 16, 2019 in a place called White House, Jakpa Road, Effurun. She said, “On that fateful day, after the incident, I was told I passed out, my lifeless body was found in the house before I was rushed to the hospital but could not be resuscitated. “The medical personnel fixed an oxygen on me and was referred to Lily Hospital in Warri where I regained consciousness after seven days in coma. “Since then, I have been receiving treatment at the Lily Hospital. "We were billed N1.8m by the hospital management and my family has been able to raise N800,000 but the bill still remains N1m. “I am appealing to Nigerians, government, NGOs to come to my aid by offsetting the N1m so that I can leave the hospital and go home and return to school.” Narrating how her daughter was raped, Mrs Ojo, the girl’s mother, said, “There was a misunderstanding between I and my husband, Treasure's stepfather, and I left the house that night to avoid the man who had at one point stabbed me on my left elbow. "On returning to the house the next morning, I could not gain entrance into the house until I called my brother and broke into the house and everywhere was silent. “I met the almost lifeless body of my daughter naked with blood everywhere along with a wet bed and bucket of water that was used by my husband to drown her. 

 fleeing suspect, Treasure's stepfather, Sunday Ojo “I raised the alarm and people came and she was rushed to the hospital. “It took great efforts by doctors to bring her back to life at the hospital. “We need the help of Nigerians to offset the N1m balance of the hospital bill so that my daughter can be discharged and return to school.” Speaking on the issue, Israel Joe, a human right activist and Delta State Secretary, Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, called on the state Commissioner of Police, Adeyinka Adeleke, to intensify efforts in arresting the fleeing suspect, Sunday Ojo. When contacted, the management of Lily Hospital confirmed the case of Treasure and the N1m medical bill balance.