  Residents of Nembe in Bayelsa State have accused youths in the area and contractors used by Iteo of sabotaging the Nembe Creek Trunk Line. NCTL is one of two pipelines used to convey Nigeria’s most sought after petroleum grade, Bonny light, for export. Ginah Olali, a chief in Nembe kingdom, said youths in the communities hosting the pipeline are hungry and angry. He said, “Vandalism did not come from the community, we have aggressive youths, the people are angry, people are hungry. “People need empowerment and employment in this region. When they are not getting it, one or two persons can put heads together and decide to burst pipeline. “If somebody happens to come and shut down your business it is because you don’t cooperate with the landlord. “If the landlord is telling you ‘come and see me before you do any operation,’ if he gives you warning after two or three times, I think he would come and shut your shop down,” Olali said. The indigenous oil exploration firm said joint investigative visits carried out to ascertain the cause of the ruptured pipeline, showed that the attacks were down to third party infractions. In the last two years, Iteo and Shell, which drills the oil that passes through the trunk line, have declared ‘force Majeure’ on the facility. The pipeline carries 200,000 barrels of oil daily. With a 61-day shutdown in 2019, the country has lost 12m barrels of its most priced grade. At an average Brent crude price of $60, Nigeria would have forfeited $720m. Residents of Nembe in Bayelsa State have accused youths in the area and contractors used by Iteo of sabotaging the Nembe Creek Trunk Line. NCTL is one of two pipelines used to convey Nigeria’s most sought after petroleum grade, Bonny light, for export. Ginah Olali, a chief in Nembe kingdom, said youths in the communities hosting the pipeline are hungry and angry. He said, “Vandalism did not come from the community, we have aggressive youths, the people are angry, people are hungry. “People need empowerment and employment in this region. When they are not getting it, one or two persons can put heads together and decide to burst pipeline. “If somebody happens to come and shut down your business it is because you don’t cooperate with the landlord. “If the landlord is telling you ‘come and see me before you do any operation,’ if he gives you warning after two or three times, I think he would come and shut your shop down,” Olali said. The indigenous oil exploration firm said joint investigative visits carried out to ascertain the cause of the ruptured pipeline, showed that the attacks were down to third party infractions. In the last two years, Iteo and Shell, which drills the oil that passes through the trunk line, have declared ‘force Majeure’ on the facility. The pipeline carries 200,000 barrels of oil daily. With a 61-day shutdown in 2019, the country has lost 12m barrels of its most priced grade. At an average Brent crude price of $60, Nigeria would have forfeited $720m. 