Nigerians have been reacting to news of the re-arrest of kidnap kingpin, Hamisu Wadume by the police in a hideout in Hotoro area of Kano State on Monday. Wadume gained notoriety after he escaped arrest on August 6, 2019, following an altercation between men of the Nigerian Army and the Nigerian Police in Ibi, Taraba State, which resulted in the death of three policemen and a civilian. The kidnapper, in a confessional video on Tuesday, said he was freed from the policemen, who initially arrested him by some soldiers. Following his shocking revelations, Nigerians took to popular social networking platform, Twitter, to express their feelings.



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Police Arrest Taraba Kidnap Kingpin, Wadume
7 Comments
2 Hours Ago One user with the handle @barbatunday, said, “I doubt if this is the real guy. I could remember the audacity of Evans. “This one looks like someone who was arranged to accept the crime. Trust nobody for Naijaooo especially the police.” Another user @Tavish_A, said, “I can't wrap my head on this. My God, clearly evident, this is amongst the reason why Boko haram still thrive in this country. “I bet you many top officials are in the cycle of the web that benefits from this ongoing painful war that has claimed so many innocent lives.” Doubting the authenticity of Wadume’s statement @AmahRex tweeted, “From his body language and the short narration, you'll still understand that the guy is being evasive with his statement.” A user named @Engrwatsu1, said, “I am happy for Nigeria at large and I'm happy for the Nigeria Police Force for putting more effort to get this notorious kidnapper back.



See Also









Breaking News
I was Freed By Soldiers, Arrested Kidnap Kingpin, Wadume Says
9 Comments
1 Hour Ago “Good and kudos to Nigeria Police Force.” On Facebook, one Lydia Valch said, “We are now understanding why Boko Haram is flourishing in North-East despite the presence of soldiers everywhere.” Expressing doubts, Geoffrey Aondove, said, “Hope it is true, because it is hard to trust the police. They are masters of corruption and telling lies. “At the same time, the army is gradually losing its prestige and respect.”