A Metropolitan Police officer, Khafi Kareem, is appearing on the Nigerian version of Big Brother despite being refused permission by her bosses and could face disciplinary action. Ms. Kareem, 29, who was pictured alongside Commissioner Cressida Dick as the Met celebrated 100 years of women in the force last November, is one of the stars of the African reality TV show. Scotland Yard said it had not granted Ms. Kareem’s request to appear on the programme and that an internal investigation would be carried out, reports UK Press Association. The UK Metropolitan Police said Ms. Kareem was granted unpaid leave for an “unrelated reason” ahead of appearing on the show but her request to take part in the programme was denied.A spokesman said: “A Pc, attached to the Met’s transformation command, requested permission to take part in a reality television entertainment show in Nigeria. Permission was not given.“The Met is aware that the officer has since appeared on the show without authority. “The Directorate of Professional Standards has been informed and will be carrying out an investigation into the circumstances. “The Met does not support the officer’s appearance nor does she represent the Met whilst appearing on the show.” The force added that any officer found to have breached police standards of professional behaviour could face misconduct proceedings. According to The Sun, Ms. Kareem joined the force as a Pc based at Lambeth station in 2015, having worked part-time as a special constable for four years. An unnamed colleague told the newspaper: “She’s a serving British police officer — it’s outrageous. She asked permission to go on the show but, when her request was refused, she went anyway.” A post on the website of Africa Magic, the television channel which broadcasts Big Brother Naija, says Ms. Kareem joined the show “so that she can do societal good”. It read: “Police officer Khafi Kareem believes that you can have it all if you believe in yourself. “She is not only hoping to win the prize money but she wants the exposure that being in Big Brother Naija House brings so that she can do societal good. “What people don’t know about her is that she is secretly talented in spoken word, singing, and dancing. She is an Ekiti native who resides in London.” The post also reveals Ms. Kareem would spend the prize money, reportedly worth N30 million (£68,000), on hosting a travel show in Nigeria, as well as investing in charitable causes.