A report by the United States Department of State has rated Nigeria very low on fiscal transparency. The report, which assesses the budgeting, contracting and licensing process of the various corporation in Nigeria, revealed that while the report did not set out to assess corruption, the lack of fiscal transparency could enable corruption. It said, “While a lack of fiscal transparency can be an enabling factor for corruption, the report does not assess corruption. “A finding that a government ‘does not meet the minimum requirements of fiscal transparency’ does not necessarily mean there is significant corruption in the government. “Similarly, a finding that a government ‘meets the minimum requirements of fiscal transparency’ does not necessarily reflect a low level of corruption.” The report classified 141 governments into three categories – those not meeting the minimum requirements for fiscal transparency, those with significant progress and those without significant progress. The report revealed that Nigeria has not made significant progress in its fiscal transparency. It added, “During the review period, the government made its executive budget proposal, enacted budget, and end-of-year report accessible to the general public, including online. “The executive budget proposal and the enacted budget, however, were not published within a reasonable period of time. “Information on debt obligations was publicly available. Budget documents provided detailed estimates for revenue and expenditure but did not include allocations to and earnings from state-owned enterprises. “The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation did not have fully audited financial reports that were available to the public. “The government maintained off-budget accounts not subject to adequate oversight or audit. “Due to oil price fluctuations, actual revenues and expenditures varied significantly from estimated figures making budget documents unreliable.” The report said, for Nigeria’s fiscal transparency to improve, the government must take the following actions: publishing its executive budget proposal and enacted budget within a reasonable period of time, detailing allocations to and earnings from state-owned enterprises, improving the reliability of budget documents by producing and publishing a supplemental budget when actual revenues and expenditures do not correspond to those in the enacted budget, making full audit reports for significant, large state-owned enterprises publicly available, subjecting off-budget accounts to adequate audit and oversight and making information on such accounts publicly available.