The Nigeria Police Force has arrested a woman who locked up a child in a dog's cage in Lagos. Video of a woman beating a boy, and thereafter locking him up in a cage with a dog had gone viral a couple of weeks ago. The video generated comments on issues of child abuse and maltreatment. The Lagos police command said it had arrested the woman, Onyinye Mbadike. In a statement on Thursday by its spokesman, Bala Elkana, the police said Mbadike, 24, was arrested at No 7 Trimnell Street, Aguda, Lagos. The police said: "This followed a viral video on the social media showing the suspect torturing one Chibike EziAmaka ‘m’ 10years old of same address. The video also showed the suspect locking the boy up in a dog’s kennel, sharing space with dogs. "The video was widely condemned by well meaning Nigerians. The Commissioner of Police Lagos State, CP Zubairu Muazu mni ordered the Gender Unit of the Command to identify the Woman in the video, rescue the child and make the suspect face the full weight of the law. Domestic and Sexual Response Team (DSVRT), Alausa Ikeja also added its voice to the call for investigation with a petition addressed to the Commissioner of Police to that effect. "The Gender Unit traced the suspect to Chumpe Liquor Store, Surulere and her residence at Aguda. The 10 years old Boy was rescued and taken to a secured shelter. "The suspect admitted that she is the one on the viral video flogging the child with belt, but she denied locking the survivor in a cage with dogs. That she only locked him in an empty dog kennel where bags are kept. She claimed to have locked up the boy for a few hours before bringing him out. "She alleged that the boy took a hot drink in their refrigerator and was misbehaving. That the suspect smashed the side mirror of her Toyota Camry with stone which made her to detain him in the kennel. "Investigation revealed that the boy lost his parents and was brought to Lagos in 2012 from Anambra State by the mother of the suspect along with his two siblings. "The suspect and the boy are cousins. The suspect’s mother is the elder sister of the survivor’s father. The suspect will be charged to court."