In the Lagos State Judiciary, court congestion and unending adjournments have continually made justice seekers suffer in a stalesystem, reports Funke BusariCourt! The voice of the male registrar pealed through the SexualViolence Court to announce the arrival of Her Lordship, Justice SybilNwaka on June 25, 2019. Time was 11:16 a.m. The High Court Rules of Lagos State provides that sitting at the courtshould start officially at 9  a.m. and end by 4 p.m. On this day,however, sitting ended about 2:08 p.m. After about four hours sitting, Justice Nwaka was able to entertainonly three matters out of 26 cases slated for the day. She alsodelivered two rulings not listed in the cause list, or on the court’swebsite at www.lagosjudiciary.gov.ng/portal for the week of June24-28, 2019. Isiaka Oladele, scheduled to be arraigned before Justice Nwaka on thatday, was not lucky. His case was adjourned to October 2, 2019. Byimplication, Oladele will have to spend another four months in remand.By this date, it is expected that more cases would have piled up inNwaka’s docket. Not that Justice Nwaka is oblivious of the anguish and frustrationthat litigants go through, but according to her, she had to risebefore official sitting hours to attend a maiden meeting with the newChief Judge of the State, Justice Kazeem Alogba alongside otherjustices. By her action, the fate of Oladele, who was not accompanied by a legalcounsel on this day, and that of other justice seekers whose matterswere not heard would have to wait in the wings until after all thejustices come back from the annual court recess which began in July.Legal proceedings on 26 June, was not in any way different from theprevious day. On June 26, 27 matters were slated for hearing the sameday, including one earlier adjourned to June 28. But proceedings did not begin in the court until 11:20 a.m. JusticeNwaka rose three hours later. Time was 2:07 p.m. after hearing thebail application of a defendant, Adenekan Adegboyega who was standingtrial for the defilement of a child in suit number LD/5013C/17.Justice Nwaka didn’t show up on June 27 and no reason was offered.This reporter later found out that most of the judges did not sit aswell because they were attending a valedictory service in honour offormer Chief Judge of the state, Justice Opeyemi Olufunmilayo Oke, whojust retired. Consequently, 22 suits on the cause list, expected to behandled by Justice Nwaka, for the day got new dates for attention, andremain in the docket still. No matter was slated for hearing on 28 June, according to the week'scause list. However, an argument for the bail of a certain Adenekanwas adjourned for that day, and the ruling was adjourned until July 3. In all, a total of 105 cases, plus another five add-ons as a result ofcontingencies, were slated for hearing for the week, making a total of110 cases, out of which 10 cases were entertained by Justice Nwaka.That’s less than 10 percent of the entire cases in the docket for theweek. Yet on average, the judge is assigned 22 cases daily. And in a month,charges begging for her attention would be in excess of 400 cases. That is happening in the Lagos State Judiciary where government citedthe need for speedy hearing and dispensation of justice as reasons forestablishing the Special and Sexual Violence Courts in February 2018.Recognizing the magnitude of the social and economic cost of domesticand sexual violence, the state government pioneered the Lagos StateDSVRT in 2014, and later the Special and Sexual Violence Courts todeal mainly with matters bothering on domestic violence and sexualassaults separate from the normal courts. Sad reality In 2018, Justice Kazeem Alogba chaired a committee to review the CivilProcedure Rules 2012, then as an Administrative Judge. In one of thebriefings by the committee to intimate the bar and bench of theiractivities, he painted a pitiable picture of the plight and sight ofhis colleagues. “Sometimes in my humble position as an administrative judge, it painsme a lot because, at a time, you could give one judge 50 files andwithin the week more cases are filed; you’d still send more files tothat judge. What miracle do you expect a judge to perform in suchcircumstances?” A year after Alogba’s lamentations, the Lagos Judiciary is stillreeling under the burden of overflowing dockets and tell-tale signs offatigue on the judges. According to Titilola Vivour-Adeniyi, Coordinator of the Domestic andSexual Violence Response Team (DSVRT) in Lagos State, Justice Nwakacurrently has over 600 cases gathering dust in her docket for 2018alone. The workload is the same for the other judge in the Lagos State SexualViolence Court. Further checks at the court registry show that JusticeAbiola Soladoye, has matters in excess of 350 pending before her for2018 too. “These courts are congested, and the judges overwhelmed,’ the DSVRTCoordinator lamented to the reporter. Justices Mojisola Dada and Oluwatoyin Taiwo, both of the SpecialOffences Courts, are heavily ladened too. At the inauguration of theSpecial and Sexual Violence Courts in 2018, former Chief Judge ofLagos State, Justice Opeyemi Olufunmilayo Oke revealed that no lessthan 500 matters bothering on economic and financial crimes beggingfor the attention of the court were assigned to both judges. Ineffect, both women had 250 matters each in their dockets at the startof operations in the economic and financial crimes court (SpecialOffences Courts.) “Presently, there are over 500 cases of financial crimes pendingbefore the High Court, the bulk of which have now been assigned to theSpecial Offences Courts. “We are enthusiastic about the designation of the new courts as we seethe development as a step in the right direction.” This was the plan, but the reality that later dawned on the specialcourts after one year of existence speaks to the same challenge.By the end of 2018, Kayode Oyekanmi, Public Affairs Officer at theLagos State Ministry of Justice, told this reporter that theDirectorate of Public Prosecution had added additional 407 matters tothe already overflowing dockets at the Special and Sexual OffencesCourt. As at July this year too, the DPP has filed another 273 casesalready, increasing the number to 680, with the likelihood of anincrease before the end of the year.How delay affects the system - Lawyer The backlash of the rising numbers of case files inundating the fourjustices at the special courts are the sustained frustration andseveral adjournments that many trials suffer before they get to beconcluded. By implication, the adjournments culminate in swellingpopulation in the prisons because of defendants who have to remain incustody until their matters are entertained. “You see, the justice system has been circumvented by such undue delayin the administration of justice,’ Barrister Kayode Bankole lamentedto the reporter,  ‘and those who infringed on the right of theaggrieved take solace in the snail speed that bedevilled and underpinsour justice system. “It affects justice system in that it makes the citizens loseconfidence in the judicial process and it also encourages theoppressors to continue to do what they are doing, people who thrive inimpunity, it encourages them to continue because they know that at theend of the day justice will be denied by way of justice delayed,” theLagos lawyer explained.Loophole in Lagos criminal law However, one of the major factors responsible for the perceived lapseson the part of judges lies with the framing of the Criminal Law ofLagos State 2015. The law is silent about the maximum limit ofadjournment in any particular criminal cause. Quite unlike theAdministration of Criminal Justice Act, ACJA 2015, which sets out toensure speedy trials. Section 396 of the ACJA, for instance, provides for day-to-day trialfor criminal cases or where this is not possible, the number ofadjournments is limited to five each and the intervals between eachadjournment is not to exceed 14 days, and where the trial has not beenconcluded then the court may award cost on any other frivolousapplication for adjournment as the case may be. The reason behind this provision is obvious; parties to a criminalproceeding are left with no other option than to execute their dutiesexpeditiously in order to obtain the best favourable results for theirclients.Like Lagos courts, like Supreme Court Even at that, this crucial Section of the ACJA 2015 appears to beeffective only on paper. At the Supreme Court where the ACJA isexpected to be fully deployed, litigants are already taking datesbeyond 2019 as a possible time for their matters to come up, thisreporter found out. As early as February this year, counsel have started taking 2020 dates.“Let me tell you, at the Supreme Court as at today, we have startedtaking the year 2021 dates, not 2020, Bankole disclosed. “So if you file a case today in the Supreme Court, you cannot get adate this year again, it will be hard. It has to be 2020 or towardsthe end of 2021.” The reason for that is not too far to seek. The apex court is alsogroaning under a heavy workload. And unfortunately, it is the samenumber of Justices the constitution provided for when Nigeria was just100 million people around 1979 that are still there today when thenational population has snowballed to 201 million. Section 230 of the 1999 constitution provides for a maximum of 21justices, including the Chief Justice of Nigeria, to be in the SupremeCourt at any point in time. But as of 2019, only the Chief Justice ofNigeria and 14 other Associate Justices are on the bench of theSupreme Court. Invariably the court is running on a six-man deficit. Back in Lagos, the experience of Christian C. Erondu in Suit No:ID/692/2006 is emblematic of the grave consequence of the delay anddenials that Bankole is griping about. The matter took 13 years to beheard before Justice A.O Opesanwo at the Lagos High court. And even after getting a judgment, Monday Ubani, Counsel to theplaintiff told this reporter, the delays are far from over. “The defendant is trying out to use the process of appeal to delayfurther the case. Knowing fully well that if the matter goes onappeal, it will take another average of seven years or thereabout.“And maybe if it goes to Supreme Court, it may take another 10 years.Maybe it will take an average of 20 or 30 years for a matter to beresolved, so you can see the danger. “The danger is that some people die waiting for justice, in fact inthis case that I told you about, the defendant died. And he was theone using all manner of tactics to delay the matter knowing fully wellthat he is in possession of the properties.”The Devil's Advocates? Part of the problems identified by the Justice Alogba-led committee onthe review of Civil Procedures rule in 2018 are the antics mostlawyers deploy to delay or scuttle trials. That's done in part through asking for frivolous adjournments, or notshowing up in court on appointed dates, the reporter found out.This reporter also found out that when lawyers are not asking foradjournments or playing the truants, they make the job of the judgemore difficult using lengthy written addresses. “Most of these judges came in very beautiful and handsome but afterfive years, they’d become enemies of the barbing salon because of yourvoluminous written addresses,' the judge groaned. As such, the Lagos judiciary has set a limit for all written addressesto be no more than 20 pages, and reply on point-of-law to five pages.Lawyers who scuttle trial dates at will too will also pay a fine ofN100, 000 to serve as a disincentive. The rules are severe though, but Bankole does not think the hash lawsare necessary. “It is not making the rules to be harsh that will solve the problemsbut rather it is when the system works properly. When the rightpersons are called to the Bar, the right persons are called to theBench and the system is well funded and above all the right attitude.It is then we are going to have justice or resemblance of justice.”Same old structure At the moment, there are just 59 judges and 120 magistrates staffingthe courts in Lagos. That’s less than 200 judicial staff in a state ofno less than 20 million residents, and still counting. As the population burgeons, business transactions are expanding,relationships are also being cultivated, thus making infringementsinevitable. But the Lagos courts remain the same old institutions—manned bystenographers who listen to court proceedings and type away on theircomputers. And judges and magistrates who shuttle between listening tocounsels and taking notes in the usual longhand.“We need to equip our judicial system with basic infrastructure. It'shigh time we left the long-hand process we are using in taking notesof proceedings. We should employ technology in the administration ofjustice. We see how other nations are not taking proceedings inlonghand, rather it is being recorded electronically after which theyreview and do the right thing,’ Monday Ubani, 2nd Vice-President ofthe Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, told the reporter. “Funding is also an issue. If we employ more judges, that means youhave to pay more money, you also have to equip the court system and wemust also amend some of our rules to accommodate speedy dispensationof justice.”Ubani’s recommendations are apt. But they will work more if the stategovernment also consider a swift appointment of more judges in theLagos judiciary, in addition to expanding its judicial divisions fromthe current five.*This investigation was done with the support of the Premium TimesCentre for Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ)