It has been 20 weary days since Omoyele Sowore was taken into a hovel of silence by the Department of State Services. The outrage over his abduction and detention is tapering off; dissolving with every quotidian day. It is human nature to quickly glide past shock, happenstance or pain after sometime but in Sowore’s case, we must bring this weakness into capitulation and into conformity with the realities of our country.  Sowore could have elected to stay in the United States where he is a citizen, and enjoy the salubrity of a well-managed country. He could have chosen to clink glasses and drink champagne with the predatory ‘owners’ of Nigeria. He had no insular reason to call for a protest; he was well-off, managing successful businesses. But like Buddha who abandoned prince-hood, Sowore traipsed an uneasy path to awaken Nigerians to the duty of taking charge of their destiny. Sowore is not an activist with pretensions of glory. He has been an unrelenting advocate of good governance, freedom and human rights since the early 90s. He led the students’ struggle against the June 12 abomination and lived in the trenches fending off military bullets with words of hope, passion and defiance. The DSS has filed five charges, which border on treason against him. The secret police say he “planned to violently overthrow the government through a protest; he planned to join forces with the Shiite group to bring down the government; he planned to mislead the public to overthrow the government, and that he formed an alliance with Nnamdi Kanu to launch attacks on Nigeria and topple the government”. I believe the DSS in truth knows these charges are farcical. But it appears “farcicality” has become the job description of the service. Since 2016, when the residences of judges were invaded in the dead of night and since when Nigerians, who criticise the government are abducted, the secret police has become accomplished in ludicrity. It has become a norm to arrest citizens and rustle-up jocular charges to keep them shut out of civilisation. “Threat to national security” is now a password for neutralising citizens and keeping them locked up indefinitely. As I said in a previous essay, the DSS must evolve. It should not be suspended in a militarised past. The agency must serve citizens' interest and not regime interest. It must understand civil protest or the call for it as democratic. And what is the endgame in keeping Sowore? How is he a threat to national security, really? Why are the real threats to our security rehabilitated, negotiated with and pampered with promises? There are speculations that the regime is exacting punishment on him for being critical of the government. His news platform, Sahara Reporters, is not letting up in publishing reports that agents of the government find abrasive. So, for them, it is about taking a pound of flesh. The DSS is a critical security agency that must not lend itself to the neurotic pursuits of any regime. The detention of Sowore, an ex-presidential candidate, is reminiscent of an ‘era of tears, sorrow and blood’ in Nigeria; a crimson season of oppression and suppression. Over the years, the secret police have racked up abysmally poor human rights records, and its perception by most Nigerians, judging by widespread condemnations, is of dread and scorn. This should not be the case. This is a time secret services across the world are becoming open, humane, civil and cordial. Even the CIA, which in the past was dreaded and considered a “dangerous” organisation, has evolved. Our own secret police should not remain in a jackbooted past. Secret services today are not to be feared but respected and cooperated with. Also, the DSS should not be political police. Governments will come and go but the service will remain. The integrity of the agency and its perception by Nigerians should matter to it. The agency exists for Nigerians; it must serve and protect them. The DSS must know that releasing Sowore will be a step in redeeming its image. Fredrick Nwabufo writes in via @FredrickNwabufo.