google  Pictures of Festus Keyamo, the newly appointed Minister for Niger Delta (State), with Jerry Ikogho, the number three suspect on FBI list has surfaced on the social media.Comments have trailed the development on the social media with many Nigerians cautioning on the choice of associates people keep.Revolutionary Jason Ude with the handle @jasonpbn said: “Beware of who you call your friends, folks you don’t know their source of income and do not take pictures with people you are not too sure of. Jerry Elo Ikogho, one of the FBI indicted fraudsters, is Festus Keyamo’s friend. Am sure Oga Keyamo would have something to tell us!”Another handle @Meshackidehen tweeted: “This is Jerry Elo Ikogho, one of those nabbed by the FBI days ago for scam. What is he doing with Festus Keyamo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and a Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria? By the time FBI is done with its investigations, many big men and women will go down”However, Keyamo has cleared the air on the pictures that have now gone viral on social media.He said Ikogho is his childhood friends and that their parents are also good friends.He said: “He is my childhood friend. We were born in the same town (Ughelli). We attended same church from birth. His parents and mine, best of friends, till tomorrow. His siblings and mine too. Only left for the US about 10-12 years ago,“Can’t deny him. It’s a family relationship from birth. He’s from a decent family. Hope they got their facts right. The wife has sent the charge to me.“The authorities clearly stated that he may not have known of the fraudulent schemes, but he helped one or two of them to transfer funds illegally for a fee. And he didn’t declare excess money at the airport. Wish him well.“In fact that picture is even at the burial of the father of the guy on the far right about 8 years ago. The guy is in the same childhood group like all of us. Likewise the guy on the far left, a lawyer, who died at the National Hospital here in Abuja about 5 years ago.”