A retired naval Captain, Diamond Onoberhie, has accused hisfather-in-law, Rear Admiral John Kpokpogri, of kidnapping his fourchildren, relocating them to Canada, where they live with theirmother, Rena Kpokpogri.The four children are Demien, Erhuvwu, Whitney (17) and Dominic Onoberhie (12).Onoberhie said upon the dissolution of his marriage to Rena, thechildren were shared between them.He added that he was surprised that his father-in-law was stillinterested in having custody of the only child with him, Dominic.In a petition by Onoberhie to the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State,he alleged that Kpokpogri did this to portray him as a childless man,adding that the admiral had also been threatening his life.According to him, Kpokpogri took all the major and conflictingdecisions to truncate his marriage to his daughter in line with hisalleged promise to render him useless.He said, “All these happened because I disagreed with his family aboutleading my life the way I was brought up in the Christian way. Theywanted us to live fake lives. Often times, my mother-in-law was on myneck to live my life like her husband’s. Each time she said this, Ialways objected to it, asking her to allow me to lead my own life.“It was along the line that I got to know that they lead a pretentiouslifestyle, which is contrary to the way I was brought up with a corevalue of the Christian faith; it is not at this age that I shouldchange that.”He added that two persons, Eliagu Abel, 25, and Emmanuel Dibia, 48,had been arraigned before the Yaba magistrate’s court, Yaba, Lagos,for aiding the kidnap of Dominic.The retired naval captain said Dibia, a lawyer, was instructed by Renato abduct Dominic, while Abel was a gateman in Onoberhie’s residence.The suspects, who were arraigned on three counts bordering onconspiracy to kidnap, total disregard for a court order and unlawfulpossession of Dominic, pleaded not guilty to the charges preferredagainst them.It was alleged that Dibia employed the services of Abel to get Dominicfrom his father’s residence and took him to his mother in Abuja.It was gathered that an Ogun State high court, presided over byJustice A. A. Bakre, in May 2018, granted Onoberhie the custody ofDominic.The prosecutor, G. A. Okhliku, said the defendants conspired amongthemselves to commit the offences and disobeyed an order of the court.He stated that their conduct was likely to cause the breach of peacecontrary to Section 412 of the Criminal Laws of Ogun State of Nigeria,2015.According to him, Stella Maris Schools Limited, which Dominicattended, through its lawyer, asked Diamond to withdraw his son fromthe school owing to the frequent troubles Rena was allegedlyfomenting.The school’s letter to Onoberhie said, “While it is not in ourclient’s nature to dabble in the matrimonial issues of the parents ofour pupils, our attention was drawn to the matrimonial issue betweenyou and your ex-wife resulting in a petition for the dissolution ofthe marriage with your ex-wife.“The High Court of Justice sitting in Ogun State granted an order forthe dissolution of your marriage; the judge stated thus: ‘I have noproblem in holding that the petitioner shall continue to have custodyof the third child of the marriage.“This third child is Whitney Onoberhie, while the respondent alsoshall continue to have the custody of the fourth child, DominicOnoberhie, who is presently with him until both are of age and theycan decide for themselves.“Despite the order of the honourable court, your ex-wife hadincessantly fomented uncivilized acts both on the premises of ourclient and also with our client’s staff.“While the order of the court only allowed access to Dominic Onoberhieduring vacations and public holidays, your ex-wife has consecutivelyduring two visiting days barged in on the school premises, disruptedthe school’s activities and demanded to see Master Dominic Onoberhie,causing untold pandemonium on the school’s premises.“In the light of the above, we wish to advise that you withdraw yourchild from the school as the actions of Ms. Ovi Rena are unacceptableto our client and pose an immense threat to the welfare, peace andgeneral safety of the staff and students of our client.”But Kpokpogri told Punch that he was on a vacation in the United States.Kpokpogri, “How can I, an admiral and his father-in-law kidnap hischildren? Is it not funny?“I gave him my daughter to marry and later turned around to kidnap thechildren. Is it not funny? It is difficult to imagine the scenario.”He asked Onoberhie to go to court if he was sure that he kidnapped his children.Kpokpogri added, “I’m really embarrassed. What he is saying nowamounts to defamation of character and false information. He knowsthat he cannot go to court and that is why he is trying to rubbishhimself. He served as a captain in the Nigerian Navy. So, nothing likethat happened.“Their marriage was dissolved by the court and the children wereshared between them. The children all decided right from the courtpremises to be with their mother, none wanted to go with him. So, howdo I come in there?“The first two children are university graduates, who have done theiryouth service; and by the constitution, they have the right to decidewho they want to live with. The court gave the custody of the othertwo children to him, but, the two children said they were not going tolive with their father but with their mother and they went with theirmother.”He noted that Onoberhie wanted to embarrass him, adding that he wouldcome up with a detailed response on the matter so that the world wouldknow the facts of the case, Punch reports.