UN The United Nations says humanitarian workers are now targets of insurgents' attacks in Nigeria. The international organization said this in celebration of the World Humanitarian Day which held on Saturday, August 17. In a speech delivered by Peter Ekayu, the Head of Office, United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, UN said 37 aid workers have been killed in the course of working in conflict areas. Ekayu said: “UN staff, INGO and local NGO personnel, State emergency professionals, doctors, nurses, host community members, or simply fathers, mothers, neighbours… thousands of people are guided by their dedication to humanity. They are driven by the most noble cause of helping others. “I salute the courage and relentless commitment not only colleagues and partners but also affected people and families have shown over the years. Our efforts are not vain. Together, we are making a difference in the life of millions. “Women are active in every aspect of humanitarian action: from negotiating access to people in need, to addressing deadly diseases such as measles and cholera. From reuniting separated children to ensuring people uprooted by natural disasters and conflict have shelter, access to clean water, healthcare, food and education. “Women humanitarians bring a unique perspective to this work through their understanding of the specific needs and priority of girls and women. “And women humanitarians extend our global humanitarian access in parts of the world by their ability to reach women and girls who might otherwise be out-of-reach and bring them the information, support and services they need.” “In total 37 aid workers have lost their lives in service of humanity since the beginning of the conflict. We are here together to honour them and their grieving families, relatives and children surviving them.” The organization also said 35,000 people had died in 2019 alone. “Over the years, too many innocent children, women, and men have died in the violence. Latest data show that about 35,000 people have lost their lives in the conflict since 2019. These are 35,000 too many,” Ekayu said.