Bayo Oluwasanmi The overnight abduction and detention of Omoyele Sowore presidential candidate African Action Congress (AAC) by the gap-tooth dictator Muhammadu Buhari is not only unconstitutional and illegal, but it is also barbaric and sadistic. This is  yet another bloodless coup by ex-coup plotter Buhari to overthrow our presidential democracy. Nigerians are gasping for breath why a General acted like a dumb coward who is so scared and terrifying of armless, harmless, and defenseless Sowore. It is no exaggeration to say that Buhari might be the dimmest President Nigeria has ever had. Four plus years presidency of Buhari convinced us that he primarily lacks sophistication, knowledge of the Constitution, of the world, and the understanding of how government works, and a rudimentary grasp of economics. It is also an open secret that the Daura despot doesn't read, has no intellectual friends, and no knowledge of how a president, better still, a leader leads. His tragic performance at the Town Hall Meeting during the presidential debate is proof that he remains blissfully illiterate in all subjects. He surrounds himself with yes people who know little or nothing besides him. His behavior, utterances, and decision making portray Buhari as a neophyte, hopelessly unschooled and naive in the governance of a nation as diverse and multi-ethnic as Nigeria. Going by his despotic behavior, it is evident that  Buhari didn’t read the Constitution, didn't acquaint himself with the Constitution, didn't see it as the law and ethical guide but as an inconvenient hindrance that must be ignored, disrespected, and trampled upon. Judging by the way he flouts the Constitution and the rule of law, Buhari sees the presidency as his personal property and as an oppressive tool to terrorize and subdue his critics who questioned his primitive leadership. As an illiterate, President Buhari's interpretation of The Constitution is annoyingly amusing. How could a democratically elected president abducted a  protest organizer for using #RevolutionNow slogan even before the protest kicked off? With drummed up Stone Age fabrications common to dictators, foolish President Buhari kidnapped Sowore saying that Sowore planned to overthrow his inept government by force. I'm not a lawyer.  I need not bore you with legal jargon. The best and the brightest of our constitutional lawyers have argued that Sowore’s detention is illegal, phony, and baseless. Where then did Buhari gets his authority to arrest and detain Sowore? The illiterate President and his blind supporters and defenders struggled laboriously albeit unsuccessfully, to justify the unconstitutional arrest and detention of Sowore. As an unrepentant violator of the Constitution, Buhari has the reputation of picking and choosing which judgments to comply with. Dictator Buhari has defied more than seven judgments of the federal high court since he came to power in 2015. Few examples will suffice. A long time ago, the Supreme Court ruled that he must publish names of thieves who looted our treasury, how much was looted, and how much was recovered. Till date, he's yet to comply with the order. The court ruled that national security adviser Sambo Dasuki should be released on bail. Dasuki still held in jail. What's wrong in granting bail to the accused and prosecute him? Until he was recently granted a short reprieve to travel overseas for treatment, a leader of Nigeria's Shi'ite community, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky and his wife have been detained by the state security forces since 2015 against court orders. For long, activist Deji Adeyanju languished in detention without bail contrary to court injunctions. And now Omoyele Sowore. Prolonged detention of Nigerians without trial is against the Constitution. These sadistic behaviors of Buhari echo his days as a ruthless military dictator. As a primitive tribalist, Buhari said he could not fire Babachir Lawal over “mere allegations.” He argued that Lawal was entitled to the presumption of innocence until proven guilty. He reluctantly removed Lawal from office. Lawal is a free man today and served as one of Buhari’s major campaign coordinators. He didn't reprimand or repudiate Governor Ganduje of Kano who was caught on camera stashing bribe proceeds into the pockets of his Babariga. Abdulrasheed Maina chairman Presidential Task team on pension reforms, cart away N2 billion of pension money. Maina fled to Saudi Arabia to evade arrest and prosecution. Buhari smuggled  Maina back to the country and rewarded him with high visibility appointment as director-general of a federal agency. The case has since gone cold. Buhari's decision to detain Sowore amplifies his 'physical blindness' as a metaphor for his wilful emotional blindness. His complete unwillingness to either face reality or accept responsibility for the travesty of justice, parochial and selective governance, continue to hunt and hurt his disastrous regime. It is leadership derailment at the crossroads of our history. Buhari is fighting a battle he can never win. He’s a buffoon, a loser, and empty-headed megaphone. With the detention of Sowore, Buhari has embarked on self-destructive imperative. Buhari is facing extreme criticisms from Nigerians because of his brazen nepotism, brutal violation of our Constitution, and flagrant disrespect of rule of law. He has lost our respects, our collective goodwill, our trust, and confidence. Buhari is a weak, wicked, and coward leader. Today, Nigeria is a national monumental tragedy. We’re in deep shit. It is instructive to remind Nigerians that octogenarian demagogue Buhari is incapable of providing unclouded vision and exemplary leadership that can keep Nigeria together as one country. We’re on the precipice. Things are falling apart rapidly. Buhari will supervise the break up of Nigeria. Stay tuned! bjoluwasanmi@gmail.com