Expelled AAc Secretary, Leonard Nzenwa Expelled National Secretary of the African Action Congress, Leonard Nzenwa, is currently working with the Department of State Services through fictitious information to falsely indict founder of the party and co-convener of the #RevolutionNow movement, Omoyele Sowore. Sowore was arrested on August 3 in a Lagos hotel by operatives of the DSS for calling on Nigerians to pour out to the streets on August 5 to register their anger at the poor state of governance in the country. Sahara Reporters had a few days ago reported how Nzenwa had successfully bought over some top officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission so that he could be recognised by the agency as the substantive chairman of the AAC. Nzenwa, who is keen on hijacking the party leadership from Sowore, has informed the DSS he is privy to information and secret moves by Sowore to overthrow the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration through the #RevolutionNow protest. 



See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: Plot By Expelled AAC Secretary, Nzenwa, INEC To Hijack Party From Sowore Uncovered
28 Comments
1 Day Ago According insider sources, who spoke with Sahara Reporters, Nzenwa would be visiting the DSS any moment from now to not only give false information on Sowore but also indict leaders of the protest in other states of the federation. As at the time of filing this report, the DSS had invited leaders of the protest in Ogun, Kwara, Kano and Osun states while it was reliably gathered that more would be invited and most likely arrested after the false information provided by Nzenwa. “Nzenwa, in a bid to firm his grip on the AAC as the legitimate chairman of the party, is volunteering damaging information to DSS to falsely indict Sowore. “As part of his selfish move to take over the AAC, he has doctored reports with a claim of being in the know while Sowore was plotting to topple the government. “He is giving fictitious reports that corroborate DSS's intent to fabricate damaging facts against Sowore. “The list of suspended persons he announced at his failed Owerri convention, are the names being presented to DSS as revolution now accomplices,” one of the sources told Sahara Reporters. Calls placed to the telephone number of the spokesperson for the DSS, Peter Afunanya, were not answered or returned while a text message sent to him did not also get a response as of the time of filing this report.