Adesegun Ojo is a professor of Political Science and InternationalStudies at Fairleigh Dickinson University in Teaneck, New Jersey, USA.Against the backdrop of the indictment of 77 Nigerians by the UnitedStates' Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Ojo speaks withSAHARAREPORTERS on the impact that may have on Nigeria and itscitizens abroadSR: What impact could the recent indictment of Nigerians by the USgovernment have on potential investors?Ojo: In the actuality, this should have nothing to do with potentialinvestors in Nigeria. Nigeria is a country of over 200 million people.Yes, it is disappointing and embarrassing to continue to hear aboutthese kinds of stories and the notoriety of some Nigerians in thesetypes of criminal activities. Yes, we may all feel a pang of anxietyor a feeling that we may all be tainted by the actions of just a fewhundred. Yes, when you travel overseas, immigration and lawenforcement agents are on the ready when they hear that you are fromNigeria. But overall, if you have no criminal background and notengaged in any illicit activities you don’t really have to worry.When it comes to potential investors, my fear is that the conditionsin Nigeria lend themselves to corrupt practices on the part of allparticipants sometimes. Even when foreign investors come with cleanhands and see the potential in the Nigerian economy or its people,they know that the level of corruption is high to the extent that theyare conditioned to also game the system for their benefits because ofthe lack of ethics and endemic corruptive nature of our system. Everylevel is tainted by corruption and these investors are well aware ofthis before they step onto our shores. They know what they have to doto achieve success. They know government officials who are in chargeof public trust are themselves corrupt and the population that are tobe served are neither as clean as you might expect. These criminalactivities have been going on for years but are becoming morepronounced because of social media. We now hear more about these onFacebook, Twitter and all.And I might add that while Nigerians are in the news because of thearrests, we also have citizens of other countries carrying out illicitactivities. This is not an excuse but this is a strong signal to theNigerian leadership to address the foundation of such problems inNigeria. Our priorities must change. We cannot continue to see publicservice as a means of acquiring wealth and not expect some others notto aspire to do the same. We cannot continue to glorify ill-gottenwealth, and expect some of our citizens not to dream of and hopes toone day be celebrated with same.SR: How does it affect the perception of Nigerians who are goingabroad for career/academic advancement?Ojo: Of course, right from the port of departure here in Nigeria tothe point of entry abroad, there is the trepidation that you mightmeet an overzealous border agent who might be biased based on thenotoriety of the Nigerian fraudster. As I said earlier, if you arehonest and you do not engage in illegal activities, though it might bedisconcerting but you have nothing to fear at all. The past fewdecades have seen an increase in the number of Nigerians abroad intheir respective careers. There are successful Nigerians all over theworld and their host countries recognize this and Nigerians in thediaspora will continue to excel in their chosen fields of endeavours.SR: Does this have any influence on xenophobic attacks on Nigeria.That is, will foreigners be more likely to attack Nigerians abroadbecause they feel they are fraudulent?Ojo: In actual fact, in many of the cases of xenophobia, particularlyin many other African countries such as South Africa, it is not onlybecause of the fraudulent activities but because also, of the fearthat Nigerians are doing well and therefore taking jobs away from hostcitizens. This is a misdirected anger because their situation is aproduct of the lack of employment as well as a result of theineptitude of their leaders. Nigerians also face the same problem hereat home. Dreams have been killed because of lack of opportunities,which pushes some out of the door to seek greener pastures abroad.Nigerians are as much a victim of incompetent leadership demonstratedby a lack of vision to address the problem of basic amenities,employment, and socio-political and economic development. It justhappened that it is a case of double jeopardy for Nigerians. They ranaway from a Nigeria with lack of opportunities and also become victimsand blame for the ineptitude of many other developing nations.SR: Is it possible that the indicted Nigerians have foreign accomplices?Ojo: Depending on the nature of the criminal activities, it will notbe surprising that there are local accomplices aiding and abettingsome of these people. Criminal intent is not solely a Nigerian diseasebut a human problem all over the world. What makes it easier today isthe advent of the new media, where you can be in a remote village inNigeria and with a simple access to Facebook or dating sites, you areable to reach out to millions of people in different countries aroundthe world.SR: How does this affect the perception of Nigeria in the comity of nations?Ojo: There are so many problems plaguing Nigeria and this is just oneof many. Our incompetent leaders and their activities and stealingfrom the Nigeria coffers, affect the perception of Nigeria in thecomity of nations. The unachieved potential of once a giant of Africaaffects us and how others see us. The activities of fraudsters arejust one of many issues plaguing Nigeria today. We need a totaloverhaul of the Nigeria socio-political and economic infrastructuresto enable Nigeria-oriented policy initiatives. Many see Nigeria merelyfrom the perspectives of their ethnic origin thereby creating tensionwithin the Nigerian political leadership. And until this process isreversed and the government actually governs, people or other nations'perception of Nigeria will never change.