 A female student of Ondo State College of Health Technology, Akure, has been gang-raped, SaharaReporters has learnt. The victim is a first year student of the Environmental Health Technician Department in the college. The rape incident happened at a hostel outside the institution’s campus. It was learnt that the victim was forcefully and sexually abused by three young men, who are from the same college. The perpetrators, identified as Eyitayo Charles, Blessing Michael, and Adeboboye Damilola, have been arrested by men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad in the state. A source at the police command said, “They are in detention at the SARS office where they have given their confessional statements. “In fact, we understand that these boys belonged to a cult group who had been disturbing the peace of students in the environment.” Speaking with SaharaReporters, the victim narrated how the three boys forcefully had their way to the room and raped her.



See Also






Sahara Reporters
JUST IN: Soldiers Allegedly Rape AAUA Student At Checkpoint 
14 Comments
2 Weeks Ago She said, “I was in the room when the three of them forcefully had their way in and pounced on me. “When they entered into the room, I was shocked and they asked me to pull off my dress and lie on the bed. “I begged them to please leave me alone but they refused. They asked one of them to forcefully undress me and before you know it, the three of them raped me. “They even threatened me that they had the recordings of the escapade and would upload the videos on the social media if I tell anyone. “I could not keep the trauma to myself and I have to tell one of my friends in confidence who reported the issue to the police and the boys were tracked and arrested. “One of them (Eyitayo) had once asked me out for but I declined his request. “Those boys really took advantage of. I want justice on this matter.” Dean of Student Affairs in the college, Abiola Ogunro, confirmed the incident during an interview with our correspondent on Monday. He said, “Although, the case has not been reported to the school officially but it is true that some students of our school were arrested by the police. “We are aware that the police have started their investigations on the case (rape) and they have promised to get back to us. “Until, the outcome of their (police) report or investigation, we cannot set up any disciplinary committee to look into the matter.” The incident comes barely two weeks after an undergraduate of Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba was raped by a soldier.