The recent indictment of 77 Nigerians by the United States' FederalBureau of Investigation has raised questions about the morals ofvictims of online scams.A number of Nigerian youths argued that some people fall for numerousonline frauds because of their greed.SaharReporters spoke with some young Nigerians.Yussuf Anka, a student of Ahmadu Bello University, said the manyforeigners, particularly the whites, are victims because they arecorrupt and looking to cut corners too."All the time we only hear the arrest of Nigerians no one tells usabout the deals. Some times they are defrauded in their efforts toby-pass laws of securing properties in Africa. The other time we heardabout a fraudulent sale of an airport. Probably the victim wasavoiding the proper process, tax, engaging companies and lawyers andall that. They want to easily secure things since they think we arecorrupt. Some times the yahoo fraudsters disguise as governmentofficials promising them corrupt cheap deals and contracts," he said.A student of Lagos State Polytechnic, Dotun Olawoye, also blamed themisfortune and the greedy tendencies of victims who are looking tosecure 'palaces in Africa'.He said: "So we've heard stories of white folks trying to buy'palaces' and 'African king' crowns believed to be very powerful andare worth billions of dollars."And the fraudsters package these things for them, tell them theactually worth, then give them out for a far lower (most timesridiculous) price but the white folks who want to own these 'powerfulcrowns' and big kingdom in Africa jump at it believing the scammerdoesn't know the worth"Even though there's no 'crown' or 'kingdom' anywhere for sale onAmazon or Jumia!"This is just one example, there are different stories because some ifnot most of these people actually believe they are the smart onesuntil they realize they are the victim."However, he added that the actions of the fraudsters were not justifiable."Because there are real victims, innocent people out there sufferingfrom these acts and it's sad Nigerian youths now see this as analternative," he explained.Qudus Balogun, a chartered accountant, believed that only a greedyperson would fall for the tricks of fraudsters."Only the greedy ones fall for scams, they want to make quick money.The whites are not fools, they only want to invest in miracles, that'swhy they get swindled. Investing in miracles is nothing but greed"He wants to make quick money because it's quick and returns on itseem huge as well. He refuses to carry out all due diligence, herefuses to consult because he wants to make the money secretly, herefuses to do so many things because he wants to own the money allhimself."The white man that falls victim of a scam at this age, in my opinion,is a greedy person and if not greedy, then, he is a thief too," saidthe accountant.Others who spoke with SaharaReporters said fraud victims were naiveand gullible.According to Tella Temitope, who described himself as a businesscoach, describing all the victims as greedy would be unfair.He said: "Depends on the type of scam they fall for. Sometimes it'snot greed. It's a quest for a better life. You show me an opportunity,sounds cool, I agree and I fall for the scam."Another could be marriage or dating. I need a better half, you'convinced' - lied to - me, in my believing you were real. I sent youmoney but you ran away. With the above, I just feel the Whites werejust naive and human."Zainab Yussuf, a media enthusiast, said the fraudsters preyed onweaknesses and insecurity of their victims, particularly in relationto a romance scam.She said: "Well, I have noticed that even those that fall victim andare married are usually people who are lonely and depressed. Theycrave for sweet words and attention that the fraudsters seem to givethem. Often times, victims are fat and ugly and pretty much seem likeeasy targets. Weight and beauty are the two major factors of lowself-esteem and depression."Davies Ikpoyi, a media practitioner, corroborated Yussuf.He stated that fraudsters preyed on victims' weaknesses and that theirtargets should not be blamed.According to him, the romance scam is plain wickedness and criminal.