Mixed reactions have continued to trail vandalization, stripping andsales of assets belonging to the defunct Delta Steel Company (DSC), inOvwian-Aladja communities of Udu local government area of Delta State,by the new management of Premium Steel and Mines Limited, said to havetaken over the DSC.It was gathered that various assets in the steel complex and housingestates were being sold to the public while used vehicles andheavy-duty machines were scrapped for sale by the new management ofPremium Steel and Mines Limited.Reacting to development, President of Udu Youth Progressive Union,Freedom Ovwemejepha, said, "There's no gainsaying the fact that thewhole essence of privatizing DSC as with other privatized erstwhilegovernment establishments was to reinvent the wheel by making it workagain and perhaps even better than when it was operated undergovernment's control and ownership."That was our expectations as the host communities. We envisaged ascenario where our restive youths will once again be gainfullyemployed in a steel complex that will not only be functional butoperating at full capacity to meet the competitive demands of itsproducts. Rather than revamp the steel complex. The company embarkedon large scale assets stripping exercise against the spirit of thetransaction. This malpractice continued unabated until AssetsManagement Corporation of Nigeria took over DSC and sold it to thepresent owners."He added, "Even though the host communities were never consulted, weexpected that the present owners should, in line with internationalbest practices, engaged the host communities in order to achieve ourmutual expectations. However, what we are experiencing presently isabsolutely unacceptable to any civilized community. We have clearproof that the present owners are engaging in serious malpracticeswhich include but are not limited to assets stripping, cannibalizingthe pieces of machinery."Speaking in a similar vein, Jefia Dede, the union's scribe, stated,"We are reliably informed that Premium Steel and Mines Limited hasalready sold the DSC Model School II. Taking over of local schools,sending our children out of school and carrying out their activitieswith great impunity to the detriment of the host communities. Ourletter to AMCON to determine the scope of the transaction with PremiumSteel and Mines Limited got no response."We cannot continue to fold our hands and watch our commonwealth beentreated with impunity. We wish to reiterate our non-negotiable standto only support genuine investors that will ensure the resuscitationof DSC plant built at enormous cost to the nation. The act of PremiumSteel and Mines Limited that recently stripped and sold off allelectricity transformers at permanent camp steel town II, vandalizedthe telephone station at camp extension, removed all storage tanks andtook over the technical high school account were more ploy to size thecamp extension."On his part, the Delta State chairman of the Committee for the Defenceof Human Rights (CDHR), Kehinde Taiga, said, "I will tell you thatPremium Steel company that took over the DSC are criminals. Not quitelong, some months ago, two trailers were arrested and were taken toOvwian division with some equipment of DSC to be sold out."They came to DSC to operate, they never bargained for the assets ofDSC. They were brought in to revive DSC and start operation, not tosell the properties of DSC. What they are doing is against theagreement they signed between with the federal government."In a petition titled, 'Stop the sales/Assets Stripping of DSCProperties (used vehicles/heavy duties) and others now',  addressed tothe Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Premium Steel and MinesLimited, signed by Matthew Uparan, President General, Ovwiancommunity, Ellas Dogene, President General, Aladja community, EmmanuelKpomalefe, President General, Ekete community, Victor Maveruo,President-General, Orhuwhorun community, copied the state governor,Ifeanyi Okowa, and obtained by our correspondent, called for the stategovernment's quick intervention.Meanwhile, the General Manager, of Premium Steel and Mines Limited(PSML), Samuel Tanno, has debunked the allegations levelled againstthe company."Premium Steel is doing all these to have access to internationalbodies to help us push out our products. We discovered that the localmarket is getting very terrible and competitive. And if you are aware,about nine firms have closed up in Lagos. The steel industry globallyis undergoing terrible times. We have taken a vow on our part and weare not looking back. What is happening in the global steel market isenough for one to pack out of the market."Yes, a lot has been said about asset stripping. Well if I own aproperty, and I am doing systematic replacement of those properties, Ido not see why somebody should tell me am stripping assets. Ifsomething is no longer useful, I don’t know whether one can call it anasset. An asset is something valuable which I must keep either forfuture or immediate use.“If it is no longer useful I wouldn’t call it an asset. We have someold trucks, somebody is telling me I should refurbish them, I said noI don’t want to refurbish them but I want to buy new ones. What iswrong with buying new ones and selling out the old ones? We removedall of them and replaced them," Tanno said.