There is an ongoing social media debate on whether being self-employedis more financially rewarding than being in paid employment.It all started with a tweet from @Ayo_Aroloye, The Ayo of Lagos,claiming that being in paid employment will not provide an employeewith the financial means to afford to buy a Benz car.“Your 9-5 won’t buy you that Benz. Put yourself out there dear,” he tweeted.The tweet ignited a passionate debate amongst young people on social media.In responding to the tweet, Mowgli with the handle @abdomos tweeted:"My 9-5 can buy me Benz (not buying tho). You people should stop usingthis to justify entrepreneurship. In everything we do, let's just keepworking hard and pray for God's favour."Another user, Sir Diskson @wizarab10 said being an employee or anemployer does not exactly guarantee wealth.He said: “The richest people are entrepreneurs. The poorest are alsoentrepreneurs.”@khal2m_ukay tweeted: “Just because entrepreneurship made yousuccessful doesn't mean a 9-5 job won't give someone else success too.We are all different & it is really immature and absurd to think thata person with a 9-5 job isn't living a good life cos he/she isn't anentrepreneur.”Neijo, a user who tweets @Nejjman_digs_u, also disagreed that salaryfrom paid employment cannot buy a Benz.He said: “Your 9 - 5 will buy you Benz. Get a strong CV. Do thehardest work in the company. Handle more responsibility. Ask for yourpromotion. If not given, apply for another better job. Your 9 - 5 canbuy you Benz. Say no to fast cash.”@jaylienwesley had a different opinion.He said: “the internet will shame you for having a 9-5 job & alsoshame you for not having a job while sleeping on an air mattresstrying to fulfill ur dream. then when you make it, they’ll praise yourair mattress story. moral: nobody else matters. just focus on you &that dream.”“If you leave your job because Twitter people said 9-5 is shitty andyou cannot become rich via 9-5, you might suffer humiliation/poverty.Please think it through before quitting. Entrepreneurship is risky anddifficult but it can also be very rewarding. Please plan adequately,”Dipo Awojide @OgbeniDipo tweeted.