Xenophobic attacks in South Africa
NAN Following renewed xenophobic attacks in South Africa, Amnesty International has called on the President Cyril Ramaphosa South African government to get justice for all victims. Thirteen national sections and offices of the human rights organization condemned the killings and brutal attacks in the country. In a statement directed at the South African government, AI said, “The recent xenophobic attacks against Africans this year are a shocking realization that the South African government has failed to curb for many years. State and civic inaction over the years has increased the potential for repeat and future attacks against non-South Africans." The group urged the South African government to respect the human rights of every person within its territory in conformity with international human rights law. “Consequently, every person is equal before the law and is entitled to equal protection of the law,” it explained. “We urge the South African authorities to take urgent steps necessary to stop the violence and killings. The government must promptly, thoroughly, impartially and effectively investigate the reports of violence and killings in the latest attacks and past events. Without prosecution of individuals suspected to be responsible for the violence in line with international human rights standards, this cycle will not be broken. “Lastly, we further call on the South African government to promote respect for human rights through education and public awareness. All persons in South Africa must understand that xenophobic attacks are human rights violations, betray the liberation movement and will not be tolerated.” The statement was jointly signed by Amnesty International Benin, Amnesty International Burkina Faso, Amnesty International Cote D’ Ivoire,  Amnesty International Ghana, Amnesty International Guinea,  Amnesty International Kenya, Amnesty International Mali, and Amnesty International Nigeria. Others are Amnesty International Senegal, Amnesty International Sierra Leone, Amnesty International South Africa, Amnesty International Togo, and Amnesty International Zimbabwe.