An apprentice tailor in Lagos, Adenike Fatai, has killed herselfbarely three months after her boyfriend, Bayo Atanda, reportedly diedof suicide.Fatai, who hailed from Kwara State, reportedly took a poisonoussubstance suspected to be sniper around 8.30 pm, last Thursday.The 25-year-old woman lived with her mother on Igbekele Street, IyanaCele bus stop, Shibiri area of Lagos State.Punch reports that Fatai had been battling depression since herboyfriend, whom she was living with in Orile, a neigbouring community,reportedly took a poison and died.It was gathered that family and friends of Bayo did not believe thephotographer died of suicide, accusing Fatai of killing him. Theaccusation allegedly heightened the trauma Fatai was going through.Although no suicide note was found in the room, our correspondent whovisited Fatai’s Facebook page observed that her status updatesrevolved round death and depression.On June 30, she bemoaned the loss of her boyfriend, who had died twoweeks earlier.She wrote, “How would you do this? Why! Adebayo Olaleye Atanda Peter;still can (can’t) believe this is happening to me. I can (can’t) evensay goodbye to you. Ifemi, ayomi; may Almighty Allah forgive all yoursins. Rest on!”Less than a month after, on July 25, she took to Facebook to expresshow much she missed her lover stating that, “The saddest part in lifeis to say goodbye to someone you want to spend your lifetime with.”“Feeling angry with myself,” she wrote in the comment section of thepost with a friend appealing to her to stop thinking negatively.The following day, she wrote, “Yaa Allah (Oh God); heal my heart, makeit steadfast and make it strong enough to accept what you havedestined for me.”On August 15, she waxed philosophical quoting the late Americanjournalist, Norman Cousins, who died of heart failure.“Death is not the greatest loss in life. The greatest loss is whatdies inside us while we live,” the post read.She uploaded some pictures of herself in cheerful mood few days later.But on September 8, four days to the suicide, she posted the image ofan archer ready to shoot an arrow, with a caption, “Ofa iku ojiji konibae tomotomo (The arrow of death won’t strike you and your children).”Speaking with City Round during the week, the deceased’s mother, Tawa,said she met her dead when she returned home from a prayer sessionthat evening.She stated, “That day, she finished cooking around 7pm and ate. Shewas outside after eating while I went to the mosque. Around 8pm, shecame to the mosque to collect the key to our apartment and I told herto check the shop.“On getting home some minutes after, I saw her lying on the floor witha bottle of sniper beside her. I called for help but it was late.”Revealing the events leading to the relationship between the lovers,the mother said plans were ongoing to choose a date for theirintroduction.She said, “She was learning tailoring in her sister’s place inIkorodu. All of a sudden, her boss sent her away. She told me she hadgot another place to learn the vocation in Orile and that she would beliving with a friend. I asked her to come and learn it at my place butshe refused.“Whenever I asked to see the friend, she would say she was not around.It was when I threatened to disown her that she told me she was livingwith her boyfriend. I tried to convince her that what she did waswrong, but she said the man’s (Bayo’s) house was close to where shewas learning tailoring. I met with the man and he said he reallywanted to marry her. He looked very gentle. We were planning theintroduction when he died.“On a Sunday around 11pm, my daughter called me and started crying onthe phone. She said Bayo drank sniper. They took him to the LagosIsland General Hospital, but he died the following morning. That time,she said she would follow him and I tried to caution her.”Tawa said Fatai became depressed and relocated to her sister’s housein Ikorodu, adding that she returned to her house after her conditionhad improved.“I never thought she was thinking of suicide because she looked happy.Some clerics warned us that death was hovering around her and I prayedover it.“I learnt she called somebody that evening and told the person thatshe wanted to go and meet Bayo and that she would drink sniper. Idon’t know the kind of love she had for him.“There was a day a friend of Bayo called her and accused her ofkilling him. I told her to ignore them. The mistake I made was that Ishould have changed her SIM card,” she added.The deceased’s father, Idris, said, he did not know his daughter wasbattling depression as they hardly saw each other.He stated, “Since her mother and I separated, I usually talked to her(Fatai) on the phone. Probably she would have told me what wasbothering her if we had the opportunity of seeing each other.”The deceased’s neighbour in Shibiri, where Fatai died, told ourcorrespondent that she liked to be alone.“I have observed recently that she rarely mingled with people, but Ididn’t know she was contemplating suicide. It was so unfortunate,” theresident, who identified himself only as Sola, said, adding that theincident was reported at the Ojo Police Station.