A senior advocate of Nigeria, Ebun-olu Adegboruwa, has described asillegal the continued detention of human rights activist, OmoyeleSowore."On  September 24, the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, refusedthe application of the Department of State Security, DSS, to furtherdetain the presidential candidate of the Action Alliance, Mr. OmoyeleSowore, and thereafter granted him bail upon certain conditions. It isthe case by his lawyers that the bail conditions have been met, butthe DSS is still holding on to Mr. Sowore, in flagrant violation ofthe express order of the court," Adegboruwa said.He added, "Ours is a constitutional democracy, founded upon theconcept of the rule of law, which prescribes unconditional respect toall orders of the court. The DSS has not appealed against the order ofthe Federal High Court admitting Sowore on bail pending his trial ifany. That imposed on it a compulsory obligation to comply with thesaid order, willy nilly."The senior advocate noted that it was upon the order of a court thatthe DSS kept Sowore in custody in the first place and if the samecourt now ordered his release, there could be no justification for hiscontinued detention."When the government and its agencies refuse to obey lawful orders ofthe court, society descends into the Hobbesian state where lifebecomes brutish and short and this encouraging citizens to resort tolawlessness," he explained.Speaking further, Adegboruwa argued, "Under and by virtue of section287 (3) of the 1999 Constitution, 'the decisions of the Federal HighCourt ... shall be enforced in any part of the Federation by allauthorities and persons ...'. To that extent, there can be nojustification whatsoever, for the continued detention of Sowore by theDSS, especially as it is not contesting the order of the court."This is why the continued detention of Mr. Sowore by the DSS, isillegal. The claim that it has not been notified with the said ordercannot stand, as its counsel was present in court when the order wasmade."Based upon all the foregoing, I call on the Director of DSS toforthwith comply with the order of court by releasing Mr. Sowore tohis lawyers immediately."