Busola Dakolo Busola Dakolo has asked the founder and Senior Pastor of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, Biodun Fatoyinbo, to tender a public apology to her and also compensate her with N10m for allegedly raping her when she was a teenager, according to court papers seen by Channels Television. Through her lawyer, Pelumi Olajengbesi, Dakolo, who is wife of musician, Timi, asked Fatoyinbo to place the apology on the front page of at least two national newspapers and two national television stations for seven days running consecutively. She also demanded that the COZA founder address a ‘personal apology letter’ showing honest remorse for his misdeed. In her suit, Dakolo said that Fatoyinbo “forcefully pushed her unto a couch close to the front door of her house, undressed her, caressed her body, fondled her breasts, exposed his genitals to her glare, forcing a bottle of soda (Krest) down her throat thereby making her breathing difficult.” She claimed that by covering her mouth to muffle her screams, Fatoyinbo threatened her life on September 23, 2002. According to her, these actions “both jointly and/or severally are outrageous and reckless and have caused her emotional distress” amounting to intentional infliction of emotional distress on her. Dakolo further stated that on another occasion on September 26, 2002, Fatoyinbo drove her in a car to a secluded area, forcefully pulled her out of the car, undressed her, spanked her buttocks, threatened her life, caressed her body, fondled her breasts and exposed his genitals to her glare. She described the sexual intercourse the clergyman allegedly had with her on both days, jointly and/or severally as outrageous and reckless and amounts to intentional infliction of distress on her. Mrs Dakolo also asked the court to declare that Fatoyinbo’s denial of his alleged acts contained jointly and/or severally through a press statement he released on June 28, 2019, had caused her continuous emotional distress and amounted to intentional infliction of emotional distress on her. According to the court paper, Fatoyinbo is expected to cause an appearance to be entered for him in an action at the suit of Dakolo within 14 days of being served.