Daily Trust Tension and apprehension have returned to the Kaduna-Abuja expresswayfollowing the renewed rise of activities of bandits with reports ofkillings and kidnapping of many people for ransom, a situation that isforcing thousands of commuters to travel by train and leavingcommercial drivers in limbo, Daily Trust on Sunday reports.The bandits had recently killed three persons and kidnapped manypeople, among them three final year students of the Ahmadu BelloUniversity (ABU), Zaria. They were later released with reports ofalleged payment of ransom by relatives even as many other victims aresaid to remain in custody of the criminals.The worse hit by the recent upsurge of the bandits’ activities are thecommercial taxi drivers plying the Kaduna-Abuja route because thesituation is gradually forcing them out of business apart from fallingvictims themselves and losing huge amounts of money.Head of drivers at the Command Motor Park in Kaduna, Emmanuel Ameh,told Daily Trust on Sunday that the gunmen are attacking andkidnapping people every day. Ameh said he narrowly escaped the attackwhen the bandits attacked and kidnapped people at a bridge afterRijana village around 8 pm.According to him, it was the gunshots and people who escaped from theincident by the roadside that alerted him. He pointed out that onreaching Rijana after the attack, there were belongings of the victimslittered on the road. Ameh said: “What baffled me is the gunmenusually change location from one point to another while the policestay at one location. The police officers don’t patrol the road.  Ifyou are able to escape and report to the police officers they willtell you they don’t have fuel to go anywhere.”Ameh revealed that a good number of the commercial drivers in the parkhad decided to abandon their vehicles for fear of being killed orkidnapped by the gunmen. “I also abandoned my vehicle because of thefear and continued attacks and kidnapping of people on theexpressway,” he explained.Ameh appealed to both federal and state governments to get to theroots of the whole thing, adding that police should also patrol thestretch of the highway. “The police should track the gunmen in theirhideouts and bring them out because staying at checkpoints would notsolve the problem. You hardly find the police moving on the road,” hesaid.On his part, the Provost of the Command Motor Park in Kaduna, AustinAlfred, told Daily Trust on Sunday that the bandits attack commutersat a notorious spot around Olam Farm. “One of our drivers who escapedthe attack is right now receiving medical treatment in the hospital.In the last month, three of our drivers were affected, two werekidnapped and one was injured.“The incident happened around Olam Farm. One of our drivers and apassenger got injured while trying to escape the gunshots of thebandits. Our colleagues evacuated the vehicles from the area to amechanic garage for repairs,” Alfred said.Alfred decried the situation many commercial drivers had abandonedtheir jobs because of the precarious security conditions of theKaduna-Abuja expressway. According to him, nobody wants to risk theirlives by plying the Kaduna-Abuja road, after 2 pm. “None of thedrivers want to ply the road except those from Abuja who want toreturn home and can pick passengers back.”Alfred appealed to the government and security agencies to re-examinethe security architecture on the expressway, adding, “Governmentshould deploy officials of the Nigeria Security Civil Defence Corps(NSCDC) to the Kaduna-Abuja road since the police alone have not beenable to tackle the kidnapping problem. Government should try anotherparamilitary on the road because I remember when passengers from Abujaairport were transferred to Kaduna and there were security problems onthe road and NSCDC were deployed to the specific spot, the problemswere tackled.”The Kaduna State Police Command confirmed one of the incidents in astatement by its spokesman DSP Yakubu Sabo, saying, that armed men inmilitary uniform intercepted some commuters along Kaduna-Abujaexpressway and opened fire on the vehicles and in the processkidnapped six persons.The statement said, “However, due to the prompt response of the policeand other security agents to the scene, three people were laterreleased by the hoodlums due to intensive combing within the generalarea. The rescued persons alongside the abandoned vehicles wererecovered to the police station. Concerted efforts are still beingcoordinated by the joint teams of Anti-Kidnapping Unit, PMF, and theIRT to rescue the remaining three victims and apprehend theperpetrators of the crime.”