Mohammed Adoke, a former Attorney-General of the Federation, has accused Yemi Osinbajo, Nigeria's vice president and Ibrahim Magu, the acting Chair of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) of instigating his prosecution.The self-exiled Adoke embroiled in criminal allegation of conspiracy and fraud made the disclosure in his book, 'Burden of Service'.In the book, he said: "I was told an influential governor from the North-West geopolitical zone once asked Magu why he was after me so vindictively.“Magu reportedly confessed to him that it was the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, that directed him to do so.“He also advised the governor to tell me that I should go and sort out whatever issues I had with Osinbajo.“On receiving that information, I recalled that one of Magu’s top aides had also voiced a similar sentiment to someone that the VP had given the marching orders to get Adoke at all costs.“Still, I won’t blame the VP alone. Magu also had his own agenda. A senator asked him if he had any personal issues with me, and Magu replied that I owned half of the Centenary City in Abuja.”Adoke said when he left office in 2015, he contemplated suicide because of the numerous allegations against him.The attorney-general of the federation during ex-President Goodluck Jonathan's administration is being accused of conniving with Diezani Alison-Madueke of defrauding the Nigerian government in oil revenue.He said: “To wake up every day and see my name being unjustly maligned on the internet was no longer bearable. Being hunted for what I did not do felt like a death sentence on its own. It is time to force my exit from this world, I told myself.“I walked to the terrace of my rented semi-detached maisonette in The Hague, The Netherlands. I looked down. Plunging a few metres seemed to offer an instant relief instead of waiting endlessly for my vindication.“I would become totally blank to shame and sorrow within seconds. I would never have to worry about the lies and the persecution again.“My blood would be on the hands of those who hounded me to my death. They would live the rest of their lives with a bleeding conscience, assuming that they had any such thing. Death, rather than life, seemed very attractive to me now."He claimed that he did no wrong in any of the allegations against him.“I did nothing wrong. I did not take a bribe, not even a cup of water or a slice of cake.“Along the line, the narrative about my role has been severely twisted, but the dust will settle someday and the whole truth will come out as straight as an arrow,” he wrote.