The 21-year-old, who is the Premier League’s joint-leading scoreralongside Manchester City’s Sergio Aguero with seven goals, has twosenior England caps to his name, won in friendlies against Germany andBrazil in 2017.Nigeria has been hoping Abraham can be persuaded to switch allegianceto them, UK DailyMail reports.And when asked about the Nigeria interest, he was quoted by TheTelegraph as saying: “I have heard the talks and I’ve not really beenfocused on that yet.“I think when the time comes, the time comes. We never know.“You can never say never, whatever comes first really. It is aboutfocusing on Chelsea and hopefully scoring goals and gettingvictories.”Abraham netted a hat-trick for the Blues in Saturday’s 5-2 win atWolves, having scored back-to-back braces in the previous two matches.The Chelsea academy graduate has made an impact for the club this termafter spending the last three seasons on loan at Bristol City, Swanseaand then Aston Villa.On Tuesday he could make his Champions League debut when Valenciavisit Stamford Bridge.And he said: “I have grown up watching big stars playing in theChampions League, and to play in it myself would obviously be a dream.“Players like the gaffer (Frank Lampard), Didier Drogba and John Terryare great legends. They have been there and done it. I would like tofollow the same path.“I am delighted to be scoring goals for a team I have grown up lovingand have always wanted to play for. It is just an amazing feeling andhasn’t kicked in yet.“Hopefully this is the beginning of a great career at Chelsea. I’mliving the dream and I need to keep it running.”Earlier in the week, England boss Gareth Southgate said, after notnaming Abraham in his most recent squad: “I think with Tammy, he’s ayoung player that we’ve always liked, we know he’ll score goals.“We felt (that it was a) bit early this time, but we really can seethat he can offer us something moving forward. We obviously gave him acap back in November of 2017.“So, for sure, we need to make certain that he feels that theopportunity is going to be there. I’m pretty sure he does. He knows uswell enough.”