Stakeholders in the economy have expressed worry about the disparitybetween huge government earnings and growing poverty in the country.This followed the report by the Nigeria Extractive IndustriesTransparency Initiative (NEITI) showing that N28.58 trillion wasremitted to the Federation Account between 2012 and 2016.NEITI’s latest Fiscal Allocation and Statutory Disbursement (FASD)Audit report for the period shows that of the N28.58 trillion, mineralsources contributed the highest sum of N18.15 trillion (afterdeductions for joint venture cash calls and subsidy claims),representing 64 percent of the total earnings. This was followed bynon-mineral source (N6.68 trillion), representing 23 percent, whileValue Added Tax (VAT) was N3.73 trillion, representing 13 percent.A year-by-year breakdown of the total remittances showed that N4.19trillion was remitted in 2012; N4.73 trillion in 2013; N4.69 trillion,2014; N2.89 trillion, 2015; and N1.65 trillion in 2016.An analysis of the N18.16 trillion mineral revenues shared among thethree tiers of government showed that the federal government receivedN8.32 trillion from 2012 to 2016; the 36 state governments sharedN4.22 trillion, and the 774 local government areas got N3.25 trillion.This is exclusive of the N2.36 trillion 13 percent derivation to theoil, gas, and mining producing states, The Guardian reports.The report also disclosed that from the share of non-mineral revenueof N6.68 trillion, the federal government received N3.52 trillion, the36 states got N1.79 trillion, and the local government areas tookN1.38 trillion.The total VAT revenue of N3.73 trillion was shared as follows: FederalGovernment (N560 billion), 36 states (N1.88 trillion) and 774 localgovernments (N1.31 trillion).“Unfortunately, the country remains economically dependent onless-endowed countries because of the less than optimal use of naturalresources, made up mostly of products from the extractive industry,”said Prof. Segun Ajibola, former president of the Chartered Instituteof Bankers of Nigeria.He further blamed the country’s slow growth and development on its“perverse spending pattern, corruption in high places and misplacementof priorities.”On his part, Prof. Adeola Adenikinju regretted that a few privilegedpeople were mortgaging the nation’s wealth. The director, Centre forPetroleum, Energy Economics and Law (CPEEL), University of Ibadan,noted that without a corresponding increase in other assets such ashuman capital, physical capital and financial capital, the livingstandards of future generations could be jeopardized.“It is sub-optimal to look for an increase in revenue through theexpansion of taxes without first resolving the inefficiency and wastein the use of existing revenues. We live in a country characterized byheightened insecurity, dilapidated infrastructure, mountingunemployment and poverty, and decline in many welfare indicators. Weneed, as a country, to reflect and recalibrate our developmentstrategy,” he said.Idayat Hassan, who is the director, Centre for Democracy andDevelopment (CDD), maintained that the offices of elected persons werecosting the country a fortune. According to her, “Things have tochange because 20 years of democracy is enough time for the citizenryto enjoy the dividends of democracy.”Dr. Ndubuisi Nwokolo, Senior Policy, and Research Lead at Nextier SPD,an international development consulting firm, took Hassan’sobservation further, noting: “The cost of sustaining our bureaucracyis obviously very high. For instance, the 2019 budget hasnon-recurrent expenditure such as salaries, overheads, and otherrecurrent items account for 46 per cent of the total expenditure ofN8.92 trillion.“Considering the level of poverty in the country and the fact that thegovernment is the highest employer, it may be wrong to cut down thesize of bureaucracy without having a strong and robust privatesector-driven economy, which can employ the majority of its citizens.”Similarly, Managing Partner, Chancery Associates, Emeka Okwuosa, said:“The cost of governance has to be drastically whittled down.Bureaucracy has to be streamlined and we have to intensify the fightagainst corruption. We have to change our mindset about governance andstart realizing that we are servants of the people and not viceversa.”But a former Chairman of NEITI, Ledum Mitee, had words of advice forthe watchdog agency. Figures of monetary allocations for projectsshould be linked to what has been achieved, he suggested.“That was why during our time in NEITI, we published the first FiscalAllocations and Statutory Disbursements Audit, which tracked theextractive revenues to the actual projects. I would still recommendthat report to the national and state Assemblies and otherstakeholders. I would further recommend that NEITI embark on suchexercise and improve on it, and also include local governments intosuch audits as was approved by the Jonathan administration.”According to Mitee, it is important for citizens to use such resultsto hold governments accountable. If citizens do not pressuregovernments on the outcome of works by NEITI and other agencies, theexpected benefits might not be achieved, he added.In another comment on the nation’s economy, Prof. Pat Utomi urged thegovernment to be discreet about pursuing revenue. “There is, ofcourse, the tax angle. Revenue does not make a nation wealthy. Whatmakes a nation wealthy is a production. With the way we are chasingrevenue, we will prevent people from producing and ultimatelydemocratize poverty,” he said.The professor of political economy disclosed this during the‘Empowered to Break Frontiers’ workshop organised by the RedeemedChristian Church of God, Faithful Chapel, Lagos, at the weekend.