 Some indigenes of Ondo State have pleaded for the release of pro-democracy activist, Mr Omoyele Sowore, who had been held by the Department of States Services since August 3, 2019 for calling on Nigerians to express their frustration over poor governance in the country. The DSS had slammed a seven-count charge bordering on treason, money laundering among others on Sowore. Reacting to his continued detention by the DSS, an Akure, Ondo State-based lawyer, Tunji Abayomi, said the human rights privileges of Sowore had been violated. He said, “The government should release him (Sowore). I think it is wrong for the court to give an order that he should be detained for that long. “That is a direct violation of the constitution. The judicial power of the court does not extend to violating fundamental rights of the citizens or violating the provisions of the constitution. “The declaration was wrong but I don’t think the intention that can be gathered from preparation and the action will support the expression. “In that case, I think it would be sufficient for the government to merely curtail him without detaining him.” Also speaking on Sowore’s treatment by the government, Sunday Amuseghan, a prominent indigene of Apoi in Ondo, condemned the continued detention of the activist, describing him as a true son of Apoiland. He said, “Sowore is an illustrious son of Apoiland who has a track record of good conduct right from his childhood. “Sowore has not contravened the constitution of the country, he has a right to protest. He didn’t protest to cause violence, he is only protesting against principles. “Revolution can mean many things, it could be industrial, it could be political or economic. In this country we have heard several economic revolution, operation feed the nation was one of such. “The governments should have listened to him and ask for his intentions, they can learn from it.” Chairman Academic Staff Union of Universities at Ondo State University of Science Technology, Dipo Akomolafe, advised the government to look at Sowore’s antecedents before his trial. Akomolafe said there was no justification for Sowore's detention over planned protests aimed at correcting the ills in the society. He said, “There is nothing wrong in what Sowore was trying to do, he is only calling on government to do the right thing. “People have been suffering and he is only calling on government to be alive to its responsibilities.”