Femi Fani-Kayode  As I was about to enter the hall to deliver my speech at theAnaedoonline first-year anniversary lecture in Nnewi, Anambra stateyesterday my lawyer and a member of my delegation, Mr. IfeanyiEjiofor, and I were approached by the DSS and told that he must notattend the event.They said that if he insisted on attending the occasion with me thevenue would be sealed up and the entire event would be stopped and notallowed to hold.They said they had orders from Abuja to stop him from attendingbecause, apart from being my lawyer, he is also the lawyer to MaziNnamdi Kanu and IPOB.I was shocked. This was a clear case of not just persecution but alsoguilt by association. I wondered whether being a lawyer to my friendand brother Mazi Nnamdi Kanu or to IPOB was now a crime.My stomach turned as I listened to the words of the  DSS operative. Itook a deep breath, restrained myself and kept repeating to myself,"FFK, do not lose that famous temper of yours!"Had it not been for my love and respect for Chief Innocent Chukwuma,the Chairman of Innoson Motors who hosted me, Anaedoonline, theorganizers of the event who invited me, Professor Kingsly Moghalu, theChairman of the event who is a dear friend and N'digbo generally whoare my in-laws, I would have turned back there and then and not gracedthe occasion with my presence.This was coupled with the fact that Mr. Ifeanyi Ejiofor himselfinsisted on abiding by their shameful directive in order to save theevent. Amidst my protestations, he volunteered to stay back andinsisted that I still attend the proceedings and go ahead and make myspeech.Apart from that my decision to still go ahead was reinforced by thefact that getting annoyed and turning back or making a scene, whichcould have had volatile and dangerous consequences, was precisely whatthe FG and the DSS wanted.The whole thing was designed to provoke me to anger and not go on withthe show. I saw through that and I was not prepared to give them thepleasure.Consequently, I proceeded to the venue, went ahead with the speech andthe full text was live-streamed on both Twitter and Facebook inrealtime. Millions of people listened to it from all over the world.It will also be posted on my twitter handle (@realFFK) and on myFacebook page (Femi Fani-Kayode) later today.Given all that happened on this occasion, I am constrained to ask, whyis Buhari so scared of his own shadow?By their actions, the DSS not only violated the civil liberties andhuman rights of my in-law, lawyer, friend, and brother, Mr. IfeanyiEjiofor, but they also proved that our Government is tyrannical,insidious, cowardly, insensitive and intolerant of opposition anddissent. They just wanted to ruin the whole occasion for no justcause.What is it that scared them so much about Ejiofor's presence? He is adistinguished, responsible, dedicated, loyal, diligent andhard-working lawyer and proud son of Anambra a state and he was one ofmany that welcomed me to his state with so much enthusiasm, love, andjoy. Is that a crime? Is the DSS so petty? Do they have nothing betterto do?Worse still their shameful and overzealous behaviour only made themappear to be far more delusional, unreasonable, weak and paranoid thanI already believed them to be.Thankfully their madness changed nothing because the show still wenton, I delivered my speech before a warm, friendly and receptive crowdof responsible people in a beautiful and opulent setting and it was agreat outing.Many businessmen, politicians, legislators, and leaders of thoughtwere in attendance and the creme de la creme of Nnewi and Anambra werethere.They included the Speaker of the Anambra State House of Assembly,numerous members of the State House of Assembly and a representativeof the governor of Anambra state.I thank Chief Innocent Chukwuma for hosting me in such a lavish mannerand I thank Anaedoonline for honoring me by not only asking me todeliver the keynote address but also for awarding me the prestigious'Peoples Choice Award'.Finally, I thank my lawyer, Mr. Ifeanyi Ejiofor, for being soselfless, for displaying such magnanimity, maturity, restraint, andpatience and for being so gracious despite the atrocious way in whichhe was treated by the DSS.He took it all in his stride and smiled all the way through just formy sake and the sake of the organizers of the event.  He is indeed myman of the moment!