  A security expert, Jackson Ojo, has accused police deployed in somesections of the Benin-Ore Expressway of conniving with hoodlums toattack motorists and passengers on the road.Ojo, a fellow of the International Institute of ProfessionalSecurities, told Punch.The road came into the spotlight following the killing of Mrs. FunkeOlakunri, daughter of the leader of Afenifere, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, inthe Ondo State section of the highway in July.Ojo, a frequent traveller on the highway, said what he observed onsome occasions and the information he got from traders and villagerson the road made him conclude that some of the police connived withthe hoodlums on the road.He said, “I travel regularly on the Benin-Ore Expressway and I passedthrough the road again last week. The policemen at a checkpoint atAkinjagunla were not wearing uniforms, nothing to identify them aspolicemen and they did not go there with any police van and they didnot carry arms.“I stopped at Ore and I interviewed some hawkers and residents in someof the villages on the road.“Traders even said that if policemen were coming to that area knownfor crime to combat criminals, they should be armed and have theequipment to do the job. They said these policemen deployed on theroad would just come without wearing a uniform and that they wouldstay at a particular spot.  They normally stay at a spot atAkinjagunla along the expressway. They usually do not use police vansor anything that can be used to identify them.“I learnt that Ondo State asked the army to take over in the area butthe police have refused to leave the road. I interviewed more than 40persons to get to know what was really happening. They all accusedpolice of conniving with the hoodlums. They said police would usuallyleave the spot shortly before hoodlums would strike and dispossessinnocent people of their belongings on the road.“I am urging the federal government to act fast and remove police fromthat side. They should deploy soldiers there and police should comeonly when normalcy has been restored.”But the  Ondo State Police Command debunked the allegation that itsmen were conniving with hoodlums to perpetrate a crime on theexpressway.A spokesperson for the command, Femi Joseph, told Punch, “It is eitherthe person saying our men are conniving with the criminals is beingmischievous or trying to satisfy his paymasters.“In the first place, has the person ever passed through that highwayin recent times to see how our men have restored normalcy to thatarea. Or is he just an armchair critic, who will never see anythinggood in whatever the police do?“If he has found any of our officers engaged in any infraction,  hashe made any attempt to report them either to the command or Abuja? Iregard such a  sensitive  statement  from him as the ranting of adebased mind and frustrated paid agent that is devoid of any scintillaof truth.”