 The world needs to invest $1.8 trillion into tackling climate change to prevent spending over $7 trillion in cleaning up devastations in the future. Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, Ban Ki-Moon, former Secretary-General of the United Nations and Christalina Georgieva, Chief Executive Officer of the World Bank, said in a new report. The three leaders are part of 34 other political, business and science top shots, who came together to form the Global Commission on Adaptation, according to the BBC. "Climate change doesn't respect borders," the BBC quoted Ki-Moon as saying. "It's an international problem that can only be solved with co-operation and collaboration, across borders and worldwide. It is becoming increasingly clear that in many parts of the world, our climate has already changed and we need to adapt to it." The global cost-benefit analysis published by the commission, calls on developed economies who are responsible for much of the world’s warming, as well as the underdeveloped economies who will be most hit, to adapt five strategies, towards mitigating the impacts of the changing climate. The report noted that countries who are list responsible for the shrinking Arctic Circle and the irregular weather patterns are the most affected. This, the researcher said, made reversing the losses suffered by harsh weather conditions, a ‘human imperative.’ The five strategies include warning systems, climate adaptive infrastructure, drought-resistant crops, protective mangroves and efficient water management. The report noted that simple apps that help fishermen and women detect changes in the weather could save lives. It said infrastructures like roads, bridges, and buildings, should also be constructed to adapt to weather conditions. The report also advised that crops that are resistant to drought are needed in desert regions like Nigeria’s north-west and east territories. It also cautioned against the clearing of mangroves in riverine areas, saying they help to protect the community against storms and flood. The most notable point made by the commission, however, is the need to not waste water in a climate-shifting world. Gates and friends will begin canvassing for the adaptation of its report at a United Nations climate change conference at the end of the month.