Mohamed Rachid Rida, a Syrian Arab reformator said, “To revolt on behalf of an ignorant people, is like to set yourself on fire in order to light the way for a blind man!” When Mohamed Karim, the Egyptian, who undertook to resist the assault of Alexandria launched by Napoleon, was arrested by the army and sentenced to death, Napoleon appealed to him and said, “I have the trouble to execute a man who has valiantly defended his country, I do not wish history to retain the image of a person who stifles the impetus of the patriots that defend the integrity of their homeland, so, I promise you freedom if you pay ten thousand gold coins as financial compensation to my soldiers that the resistance killed.” Smiling, Mohamed Karim replied, “I do not have the full amount requested on me but I am indebted more than 100 thousand pieces of gold by the merchants of Alexandria, they will pay for sure, this fine, so that I have my life saved.” Chained, Mohamed Karim was driven to the Alexandria market for a tour of the market in search of the sum on, which his freedom will depend. But, to his great surprise, no merchant was on his fate, worse, the natives accused him of being a troublemaker, destroyer of property, and undermining the economic vitality of the port city of Alexandria. Napoleon, in view of the resignation of his family towards him, declared, “I will concede that the sentence of capital punishment be executed not because you killed my soldiers, but for having fought for cowardly people, who care more about their businesses than about their integrity.” Me: Sowore over the years stood up for the Nigerian nation. At every junction, the activist refused to sit on the fence. He has demonstrated courage, carrying out actions he honestly believes can change the ugly political situation in Nigeria for the better. He has worked so hard to earn a living for himself and provide employment and livelihood for young reporters and researchers at SaharaReporters. He doesn’t deserve to be kept in detention and tried for standing up in defense of the people of Nigeria against decades of bad governance.