The Taliban on Sunday warned that more American lives would be lost ifPresident Donald Trump canceled peace talks with them, but said theyremained open to continuing with the talks.The group was replying to a series of Trump tweets on Saturday thatsaid a secret meeting with “major leaders” of the Taliban at CampDavid had been canceled because of an attack by the insurgents thatkilled an American soldier.“Unfortunately, in order to build false leverage, they admitted to anattack in Kabul that killed one of our great, great soldiers and 11other people,” Trump said. “I immediately cancelled the meeting andcalled off peace negotiations.”Secretary of State Mike Pompeo confirmed talks between American andTaliban officials — which have spanned the past year and resulted in adraft agreement to end America’s longest war — have been suspendedindefinitely and that U.S. forces would continue to put militarypressure on the insurgents.“If the Taliban don’t behave, if they don’t deliver on the commitmentsthat they’ve made to us now for weeks, and in some cases months, thepresident is not going to reduce the pressure, we’re not going toreduce our support for the Afghan security forces that have fought sohard there in Afghanistan,” Pompeo said in an interview with CNN.The Taliban said the response by the U.S. showed a lack of “patienceand experience,” and highlighted that neither side had committed to acease-fire while the agreement was being finalized.“This will lead to more losses for the U.S.,” Taliban spokesmanZabihullah Mujahid said in a statement. “This has damaged the U.S. themost, its credibility will be affected, its anti-peace stance will beexposed to the world.”However, Mujahid said the insurgents remained open to continuing talks.“We will stay committed if the path of negotiation is chosen insteadof fighting,” he said.The comments came after American envoy Zalmay Khalilzad said Sept. 2that the U.S. had reached an agreement “in principle” with the Talibanthat only needed Trump’s approval to be finalized. Under theagreement, international forces would be withdrawn from Afghanistan inphases in return for Taliban promises not to allow terrorists to usethe country to launch attacks on the U.S. and its allies.Many experts have expressed concerns over the deal, of which mostdetails have been kept secret.Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., told Fox News last month that withdrawingtoo many U.S. troops from Afghanistan could lead to another 9/11. Agroup of former U.S. ambassadors issued a joint statement on Tuesday,warning the country could descend into “total civil war” ifinternational forces withdrew too soon.The Afghan government, which has been excluded from the U.S.-Talibantalks, expressed similar concerns after it was shown the draft deal inrecent days.The details of the agreement “were not convincing,” Afghanpresidential spokesman Sediq Seddiqi told reporters on Sunday. Herefused to say what impact Trump’s decision would have on the peaceprocess, but said, “The recent attacks in Afghanistan by the Talibanshow that the Taliban are not committed to any peace effort.”The attack that prompted Trump to cancel talks with the Talibanhappened Thursday when the group detonated a car bomb in Kabul’sdiplomatic quarter.Sgt. 1st Class Elis A. Barreto Ortiz, 34, was killed in the attackalong with a Romanian soldier and 10 civilians. Ortiz’s death cameless than a week after Master Sgt. Michael Riley, 32, and Sgt. JamesJohnston, 24, were killed by the Taliban in southern Uruzgan province,reports Stars and Stripes.“What kind of people would kill so many in order to seeminglystrengthen their bargaining position? They didn’t, they only made itworse!” Trump tweeted.“If they cannot agree to a ceasefire during these very important peacetalks, and would even kill 12 innocent people, then they probablydon’t have the power to negotiate a meaningful agreement anyway. Howmany more decades are they willing to fight?”