There was drama in front of the Ahmad Bn Hambal Islamiyya School inRigasa, Igaba Local Government of Kaduna State when parents of theover 300 children evacuated by police called for the release of theirchildren from police custody, saying they see no reason why the policeshould take their wards away from the school.The police had on Thursday, raided the school, and took with them over300 children in 15 Danfo buses to the Kaduna Police Commandheadquarters.Police authorities alleged that the children were said to have beenplaced in dehumanizing conditions, cramped in rooms, with some of themin chains while others had big scars and injuries on their bodieswhich must have been as a result of torture. There were alsoallegations of sexual abuse.Kaduna State Commissioner of Police, CP Ali Aji Janga, while briefingjournalists after the raid, said they acted based on information thatsomething is going on at the rehabilitation centre.He said, “So, I sent my DPO here to check what was going on. Ongetting here, we discovered that this is neither a rehabilitationcentre nor an Islamic school. You can see it yourself that they aresmall children, some of whom are brought from neighbouring Africancountries like Burkina Faso, Mali and others and from across Nigeria.Most of them were even chained.“The man operating this home claimed that parents brought theirchildren here for rehabilitation. But, from the look of things, thisis not a rehabilitation centre. No reasonable parent will bring hischildren to this place.“So, we are going to investigate them and get to the root of thematter. We will find out the real motive behind this centre, and ifthey are found wanting they will be charged to court.”The proprietor of the centre, Malam Ismaila, had however refuted theallegations, saying all they do in the centre is to teach Islam.He said, “All those allegations of torture, dehumanization, andhomosexuality are false and mere allegations. We do nothing here otherthan teaching people Islam.“They don’t do anything other than recitation of Qur’an, pray andworship God. Those chained are the stubborn ones who attempted runningaway. Those who don’t attempt running away are not chained. Some werechained before and after settling down, they were freed."On hearing about the raid on Friday, parents of the children stormedthe school premises and demanded the release of the children frompolice custody. The school was however shut down.Daily Trust reports that students, including the mature men amongthem, were mostly drug addicts and children whose parents took to theschool for rehabilitation and also to acquire quranic knowledge.One of the women, Shafa’atu Zakari, said she has six children in theschool who were drug addicts and were uncontrollable, which was whyshe took them to the school to acquire Qu’ranic knowledge.“We brought the children to the school because we don’t know what todo with them. Presently, four of my children are among the childrenevacuated by the police. We demand their release because the founderof the school is doing everything possible within Islamic teaching torehabilitate them for us,” she said.Maman Jibril, whose son Jibril has been in the school for six years,said, “The boy became a threat to us (his parents) so we took him tothe Islamiyya school for rehabilitation and to God be the glory he haschanged. I visit him from time to time and I have never seen anythingwrong going on in the school."Ahmed Balarabe, who lives close to the school, denied the allegationsof sexual abuse on the children as alleged by the police.He said, “I share a fence with the school and my two sons attended thesame school before their graduation, and they never told me anythingof such. Being a neighbor, who also has access to the school, I shouldknow if such a thing is happening there,” he said.One of the directors of the school, Malam Mohammed Auwal El’Zubair,also denied all allegations made by the police, saying all thechildren were brought with the consent of their parents.On Friday morning, the children were taken to the Ranchers BeesStadium where they were kept to be handed over to the appropriateagency in charge of children’s welfare.