Bayo Oluwasanmi  On Tuesday, Justice Taiwo Taiwo of Federal High Court in Abuja ruledthat the Department of State Services (DSS) should release OmoyeleSowore on bail. Sowore is still held in detention by the DSS. Mr. FemiFalana, attorney for Sowore has vowed that he and his team would notleave DSS facility until his client is released to him.In a democracy, it is necessary that agencies of government and publicofficials obey the rule of law. Public officials must be made torespect the substance of the law as well as respect the proceduresembedded in the law, such as the judgment handed down by Justice TaiwoTaiwo. Public officials must also respect the right of citizens toaccess such procedures in order to defend themselves against thetyranny of an emperor like Emperor Buhari.No agency or public official should have the power to flout orcherry-pick the law or judgment of a court. It is instructive to notethat the rule of law is meant to curb the cruelty and crudity ofrapacious officials. The refusal of DSS to free Sowore as ordered byJustice Taiwo Taiwo is yet another example of Emperor Buhari’sdetermination to turn Nigeria into totalitarianism. Has DDS the powerto arrest, detain, or flout court order? What special powers has theConstitution given to DSS? Is DSS above the law? Why did DSS refuse toobey the law? Who is behind the DSS behavior? Why is DSS still holdingSowore when all bail requirements have been met?Whoever the DSS officer - from director to the lowest official - whodisobeyed the court judgment must be sanctioned for contempt of courtup to jail term. The DSS director is formally responsible for whateverhappens below him. Justice Taiwo Taiwo should issue a warrant for thearrest of DSS director to show cause why he shouldn’t be held incontempt of court. Justice Taiwo Taiwo should determine who isresponsible for noncompliance of his order. All records must beproduced of who up to the chain of command the person who orderedcontinued detention of Sowore.Will Emperor Buhari destroy his presidency? Yes!Buhari disdains the rule of law. He’s shredding norms of presidentialbehavior. Most importantly, he’s bringing vital organ of our democracy- the judiciary- down with him. We have never had a president soill-informed, so illiterate, so clueless, and so uneducated about thenature of his office. Emperor Buhari is so openly mendacious, soself-destructive, and so brazen in his attacks on the rule of lawespecially on court orders and freedom of speech, association, andassembly.Emperor Buhari is a monster of the worst attributes of a president:rage, bigotry, nepotism, oppression, incompetence and spite,self-aggrandizement, paranoia, insecurity, indifference to law, andlack of self-control and reflexive dishonesty. The prognosis for therest of his second term is grimmer. His bizarre behavior has made ourpolitics and democracy more toxic. Emperor Buhari has successfullyembarked on gradual dismantling and destruction of our justice system.I’ll like to remind Emperor Buhari that the presidency is definedlargely by the person who occupies it: his character, competence, andleadership skills. Great presidents in history exercised power wisely.Emperor Buhari has debased the office and betrayed the Constitution.The era of emperors are long gone and dead. Emperor Buhari shouldrecognize that he presides over representative democracy. The firststep to acknowledge this is to order DSS to stop the bullshit and freeSowore TODAY!