The Biafra Zionists Federation says the Indigenous People of Biafra'splan to attack South-East politicians in foreign lands will portrayIgbo as violent people.Nnamdi Kanu had directed IPOB members to attack Igbo leaders anywhereoutside the country.He even urged the proscribed group to attack President MuhammaduBuhari in Japan.The leader of BZF, Benjamin Onwuka, in a statement on Sunday, however,said: “It is a wrong strategy for anyone to go to Japan under thepretext of arresting Buhari. I feel ashamed when I read what ishappening in Japan.“People should be very careful, that is why the Zionists are talkingabout diplomacy. People should stop doing things that will make theinternational community see us as violent people. It is verydangerous.“These people should focus on what is achievable; going to Germany toattack Ike Ekweremadu is just mocking yourself. The Fulani are theones holding us down not Ekweremadu.”Onwuka stated further, “That thing they are doing is very shameful.Look at the one they did in Japan; you are going to arrest a sittingpresident, how is that possible? I was educating them on the net, IPOBmembers said they were going to kill me.“But the whole thing is funny. Buhari has diplomatic protection, soyou can’t touch him, you can’t even go near, even a minister can’ttouch him because he has a diplomatic passport. Going to Japan to makenoise cannot help us.“So, this is not the way to go, it is damaging us; it is all politicalpropaganda which they are using to brainwash and collect money frompeople. All these violent protests will make the world to begin to seeus as dangerous people. He is destroying our campaign; they shouldcome and join the Zionists.“There has been a sustained agenda to stifle businesses of Biafrapeople. Mr. Ibeto suffered the same fate simply because of Nkalagucement, leading to his incarceration for several months. We fought andhe was released.“Now to show that those behind this are not ready to give up, theyhave now faced Innoson and are now doing everything to kill hisinvestments.” ReplyReply to allForward