Nigeria Cameroon border



Prices of foodstuffs and other commodities have increased in manyborder towns and most of the country’s cities as the borders remainpartially closed, Daily Trust reports.The partial closure is as a result of joint security exerciseconducted by the customs, immigration, and other security outfitsaimed at securing Nigeria’s borders. The exercise started on August20.The authorities said the security exercise was called at the instanceof the National Security Adviser (NSA).Daily Trust reports that many Nigerians who do trans-border businesshave been experiencing difficulties in carrying out their trade. Thishas forced them to cut their demand even as they increased the pricesof their little stocks, our reporters learnt.Worst hit are residents of border communities where prices offoodstuffs and other commodities have soared. In some bordercommunities in Ogun State, petrol was even sold for N350 per litre,instead of government regulated price of N145/litre.Also in border communities in Kwara state, petrol price that used tobe N160 is now being sold for between N200 and N400. The increment inpetrol price in the areas has also led to hike in transportation farewhich has also affected the prices of locally produced food items likeyam, yam flour and others in most towns in Kwara State.‘Closure blocked smuggling of petrol’But a renowned financial expert Bismarck Rewane said the closure ofthe border has forced the price of petrol down to N144 per litre. MrRewane, who is the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer ofFinancial Derivatives Company Limited, in a report he presented at themonthly Lagos Business School’s executive breakfast meeting forSeptember, also said the closure had blocked smuggling of petrol tothe neighbouring countries.Rewane said the development showed that part of the nearly 60 millionlitres of petrol said to be consumed daily in Nigeria were smuggled tothe neighbouring countries. He also revealed that diesel price hasalso crashed to N210 per litre from N250/litre.The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National PetroleumCorporation (NNPC), Malam Mele Kyari, also said the volume of petrolevacuated from depots to filling stations across the country hasdropped significantly since the border closure became effective. TheNNPC boss said this on his verified twitter handle @MKKyari.Between June 2018 and June 2019, the NNPC had imported 21millionlitres of petrol for consumption, out of which an average of44,366,781.77 litres were consumed daily in June 2018; 39,154,764.15litres in July; 54,144,365.76 litres daily in August of the same year,and 55,499,192.80 litres daily in September 2018.However, findings by our correspondents in states where Nigeria sharesa border with neighbouring countries show that prices of rice, poultryproducts, some brands of vegetable oil, beans and even fairly usedclothes have increased by between 10 and 30 %. For instance, a bag of50 kg foreign rice which usually sold for N13,000 and N15,000 beforethe closure now goes for N16,000, N18,000 and N20,000 depending on thebrands in many towns and cities in the country.A resident of Belel in Maiha Local Government Area of Adamawa StateDauda Abubakar told Daily Trust that price of bread rose in recentweeks due to restriction of flour import from Cameroon. He said it wasdifficult to transport flour from Yola due to bad roads and brokenbridges; hence bakers opted for a cheaper alternative from Cameroonianside of the border which is closer.However, a fruits dealer, Muhammad Bello said the restrictionprevented exports of orange into Cameroon, thereby causing a drop inprice. He said the price of a sack of oranges crashed from N9000 toN7000 as the supply surpassed its demand. Adamawa is one of the threefront line states in the war against Book Haram had been placed undera form of border restriction since 2015 but renewed control in thelast few weeks caused outcry at the border.A rice smuggler described the closure as counter-productive, sayingprices of maize began to shoot up the Wurobokki border in Fufore localgovernment area. In Katsina, prices of foodstuffs have also risen. Theprice of 25 litres of vegetable oil has risen from N9,500 to N10,800in the state. A packet of spaghetti rose from N2,700 to N3,400, whileMacroni rose from N3,400 to N3600‎.But the partial closure has heightened smuggling around Lagos bordercommunities. The smugglers have now resorted to using waterways tobring contraband items such as rice, frozen poultry products, andfairly used clothes, shoes and bags into the country.Despite the increase in smuggling activities, prices of some basicfood items have skyrocketed, with traders and consumers complaining oflimited stocks. Frozen poultry is the most affected in Lagos as akilogramme of frozen chicken, which sold for N1,200, now costs N1,600,while a kilogramme of frozen turkey now sells at N1,700. A trader atAlaba Rago, a major market in Lagos, Tawa Ibrahim, said that theborder closure was affecting his business.She said: “Lake Rice (locally produced rice) would have been a betteralternative for us, but we are not getting it to buy… Even the volumeof okra needed to feed this nation cannot be produced in Nigeria. Werely so much on Cotonou for okra. That is why its price has also shotup since the border was closed.A big basket of okra, which sold for N4,000 or N5,000, is now N8,000.”In Kebbi, the closure of borders with Niger and Benin Republics isalready causing economic hardship to people around the border areas ofDole Kaina, Lolo, Kamba, and Bachaka.When Daily Trust visited some of the border towns residents,particularly farmers and merchants in the area, said the closure ofthe borders was already causing them economic hardship.The district head of Lolo, Alhaji Muhammed Sallah while lamenting overthe situation said, “The situation is becoming unbearable. As you areaware our people are into farming and they do cross border trade.Since they close the borders in Lolo we cannot do our farming and wecannot trade. The prices of commodities are increasing by the days."He added that the situation was becoming more pathetic because hispeople have family, cultural and trade ties with people of Benin andNiger Republics and because of the border closure his people in Kebbi,Niger and Benin Republics are suffering.In Kwara, prices of commodities in all border communities have equallyskyrocketed as a result of the partial closure of the border.Communities like Gwanara, Bukuro, Okuta, Yaahikra, Chikanda,Ilesha-Baruba have been at the receiving end of the closure whileprices of rice and edible oil have also increased in the statecapital.Emir of Gwanara, Alhaji Sabi Idris Kotokotogi during a visit to hiscommunity said the closure of the border is affecting them seriouslyadding that “any time the Nigerian government takes any drasticdecision on the closure of our borders it is those of us on the borderthat suffers the fate".