 As President Muhammadu Buhari continues to grapple with the rising level of insecurity in Nigeria, his home state, Katsina has stuck out like a sore thumb if the latest threat by a group of bandits is anything to go by. A letter purportedly written by bandits to Kuraye village in Charanchi local government area in the state, warning residents to get ready for an attack has struck further fear in the hearts of Katsina people. The letter, which has gone viral on many social media forums in the state, is presently being investigated by police to ascertain it’s authenticity. Already three persons have been arrested from the town and moved to the Divisional Police headquarters for questioning, Daily Trust reports.“No matter what measures are put in place we are coming with 150 motorcycles and 7 Hilux vans to attack so get prepared till we come,’’ the letter, written in Hausa, warned. A resident, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said although they had yet to determine the authenticity of the letter, many people were scared. Some have decided to leave the village. “We heard stories of neighbouring places having received such letters and their towns or villages were invaded,’’ he said. ‎ Another said, “People discuss this at every forum, we hardly sleep since this letter was found. Government should please step up and bring this to an end.” The District Head of Kuraye, Abdullahi Abubakar said the situation started three days ago when some students picked up the said letter and handed it over to their teacher who passed it to a vigilante before it finally reached the village head. A police spokesman in the state, Gambo Isah, said, “The village head approached me with it and such kind of issues you don’t take them for granted. We as well wrote and forwarded it to the next line of command available to us, the Palace of the Emir of Katsina and security operatives in our local government councils.“On that very night, the DPO sent in patrol team to the town that brought a little relief. It is now left for them to see if we desire to be protected against the perceived attack or not.” Speaking further, he noted: “Threats of this magnitude cannot be downplayed. Don’t hesitate to share any information, even rumours that affect the security of the state to security agencies.”