The police in Kaduna State have uncovered a building in Rigasa whereat least 300 people many of whom are children are tortured, chained,sexually assaulted and starved.The police added that there were signs that the victims were beingindoctrinated.The victims, according to the police during a press conference, arefrom Burkina Faso, Mali, and other African countries.Bello Hamza, who had spent three months in chains at the centre, toldjournalists, “I got admission to study Applied Mathematics, but here Iam chained. They claim to be teaching us the Quran and Islam but theydo a lot of things here. They subject the younger ones tohomosexuality.“This is supposed to be an Islamic centre, but trying to run away fromhere attracts severe punishment; they tie people and hang them to theceiling for that, but engaging in homosexuality attracts nopunishment.“Within my short stay here, somebody had died as a result of torture.Others have died before my coming due to poor health and torture. Theygive us very poor food and we only eat twice a day; 11 am and 10 pm.“They have denied me a lot of things here. I am a family man, I haveresponsibilities, but I am chained here not knowing what is happeningto my family members.”Ali Janga, the Kaduna police commissioner, said: “We receivedinformation that something is going on in this rehabilitation centreor Islamic centre. So, I sent my DPO here to check what was going on.“On getting here, we discovered that this is neither a rehabilitationcentre or Islamic school. You can see it yourself that, smallchildren, some of whom are brought from neighbouring African countrieslike Burkina Faso, Mali and others and from across Nigeria. Most ofthem are even chained.“These people are being used, dehumanized. You can see it yourself.The man who is operating this home claimed that parents brought theirchildren here for rehabilitation. But, from the look on things, thisis not a rehabilitation centre. No reasonable parent will bring hischildren to this place.“So, we are going to investigate them and get to the root of thematter. We will find out the real motive behind this centre, and ifthey are found wanting they will be charged to court. But first, weare evacuating all the people from this place to our station and wewill make an announcement for parents to come and recover theirchildren.”But the owner of the centre said, “Those chained are the stubborn oneswho attempted to run away. Those who don’t attempt running away arenot chained. Some were chained before and after settling down, theywere freed.“Most of them were brought by their parents from across the countryand others from outside the countries“All those allegations of torture, dehumanization, and homosexualityare false. We do nothing here other than teaching people Islam.“They don’t do anything other than, recitation of Qur’an, pray andworship God,” the Malam said.