Nigerians in the diaspora on the platform of the Global Coalition forSecurity and Democracy in Nigeria have petitioned the President of theWorld Bank, David Malpass, to put an end to further negotiations withthe President Muhammadu Buhari regime to borrow another $2.5 billion.Another online petition is ongoing as the group plans to embark on apeaceful protest march to the headquarters of the World Bank inWashington on 15 October.The group stated that Nigerians could no longer tolerate the action ofgovernment officials that steal public funds and resort to borrowingand increased taxation against the same citizens they stole from.In a letter exclusively made available to SaharaReporters by theGlobal Coordinator of the group, Frederick Odorige,15 reasons werelisted why the loan should not be approved."After writing off Nigeria’s $18 billion debt by the Paris Club in2005 the Nigerian government went on a borrowing spree which has ledto a current debt of over $81 billion that was mostly mismanaged."Some persons that were indicted for various corruption cases havebeen appointed by the current governments as Ministers. These are thesame persons that will manage the anticipated fund."Our federal legislators continue to earn the highest salaries in theworld insensitive to the fact that we are currently the povertycapital of the world. The senators are also shopping for about $17million to buy vehicles in addition to their fleet of cars," the groupexplained.It added that senators traditionally 'pad' the country's budgets fortheir selfish interests.In 2018 a court ordered President Buhari to prosecute the senatorsthat padded 2016 national budgets by N481 billion (about $1.5billion).The group, however, noted: "The President intentionally refused tocomply with the court order. The padded and stolen amount is enough tobuild 10 standard hospitals in each of the 36 states of Nigeria."We have 34 mineral resources spread across 430 locations in Nigeria.Many developed countries do not have this. If for many years, ourgovernment cannot harness these resources to enhance our commonwealth,then they should be left to their shame."We are very convinced that at least half of the anticipated loan willeither be stolen or used to service the unnecessary high cost ofgovernance. We have been ranked 144 out of 180 countries in terms oftransparency."Arguing further, the group said: "The current government of retiredGeneral Muhammadu Buhari claimed to have bought mosquito nets for $16million which they purportedly distributed. That money was alsoborrowed. No clear accountability was done as our children continue todie daily from malaria. For every dollar you give as further loans,you speed the death of Nigerian children and facilitates in mortgagingthe life of our present youths."The United Nations has projected that Nigeria will remain the povertycapital of the world beyond 2050. This is an attestation to the factthat there are no clear and concrete development plans to lift ourpeople out of poverty. It is no longer news that our people areescaping in droves from the country and forming the highest number ofAfrican migrants that die on the Mediterranean Sea."In October 2018, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) warned Nigeriaand sub-Saharan African economies to check the rising levels of debtsand to diversify their revenue bases or face a crisis.Other financial institutions in Nigeria have also warned thegovernment against further borrowing."Nigeria has refused to comply as it continues to depend on thefluctuating oil prices. Economic crises will surely be quickened ifyou issue this loan."Sadly, our country`s debt servicing to revenue ratio is now more than50 percent. This percentage will increase as you continue to grantloans and it will be practically impossible to ensure development."Since most of our resources are stolen by those in government, theburden of taxation are always be passed to the general public. Forexample, VAT has just been increased from 5 to 7.2%, including theintroduction of other bank service charges," it pointed out.Future governments, the group stated, might find it difficult to payback what the World Bank intended to lend Nigeria unless the bank wasprepared to write off the loans in the future.It also cited insecurity in various parts of the country and theinability of the government to provide stable electricity which hasfurther compounded the challenges of production as a reason the loanshould not be given."This will be worsened as the unemployment rate will jump to 33.5% inthe year 2020," the group claimed."Many states in Nigeria are currently struggling to pay salaries andthe minimum wage which is barely $84 monthly. This is as a result ofthe fact that former State governors stole so much money and lefttheir various states in huge debts. For example, Kogi State of Nigeriacurrently owes 39 months salary arrears to its 7000 teachers. Thestory is almost the same in some other states."There are various lawful revolution protests going on in and outsideNigeria as our citizens have risen from complacence to challenge theincompetencies of government. Such protests have led to the use ofviolent force by security agencies who have detained, shot and killedunarmed protesters against the rule of law. For any money you lend tothe Nigerian government, you are unwittingly investing in the blood ofour people." Scanned Original Letter - Nigerians In Diaspora Petitions World Bank To Stop Another $2.5-Billion Loan To N... by Sahara Reporters on Scribd