Former Super Eagles coach, Samson Siasia, says he has appealed the life ban slammed on him by the world football governing body, FIFA, adding that it has been a hard time for him as he is also trying to rescue his mother from the hands of kidnappers. Siasia, on Wednesday, told journalists that his lawyers had filed an appeal to FIFA on August 27, while another appeal was filed with the Court of Arbitration for Sports (CAS) on August 29. “I wish to state that I have never been and would never be a party to any form of unethical conduct or perversion in the discharge of my duties in any capacity. “I built my career in the football industry on the foundation of hard work, integrity, consistency, and God. “In all my career, I have done nothing but serve my country and clubs to the best of my personal and professional ability, with all my strength and might, with discipline, pride and passion, and an awareness that it is a privilege to be an ambassador of our great nation. “It is my greatest hope and belief that my country also stands by and with me at a time like this,” Siasia explained. Speaking about the ban, Siasia said he was oblivious of the proceedings. He stated: “That was when the news broke in the public domain and friends and family started to call. I was totally unaware of the proceedings until I heard about FIFA’s decision. “While I may not be able to publicly divulge the details and specifics of the appeal, I think it fit to inform you that I have appealed against FIFA’s decision and you all will probably hear the results as you heard about the ban. “I am currently taking legal advice. My lawyer, Austin Otah, has been liaising with the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and its counsel.” The former Super Eagles coach admitted the pains the ban had caused him. “I thank everyone who has supported me in one way or the other. I must state that this is the most trying period of my life. I am still dealing with the pains and challenges of my mother being kidnapped again and fighting to secure her release," he said. “I urge the nation to support me with prayers, goodwill, and support of all kind. The demands are very heavy,” he said, struggling to control a surge of emotions." His lawyer, Otah, added, “We have actually assisted Siasia to file his appeal and we are awaiting FIFA to acknowledge the receipt of the appeal. We are awaiting feedback from FIFA and CAS. “The FIFA decision requires Siasia to appeal to CAS. We are exploring an internal appeal mechanism, and this will exceptionally be with the Appeal Committee of FIFA. “But, that notwithstanding, we are still to ensure that his appeal rights are not impeded in any way.”