Bayo Oluwasanmi Nigeria came into being as a result of the British amalgamation ofNorthern and Southern colonial territories in 1914. The amalgamationwas an act of colonial convenience for obvious reasons. The Britswanted one country stretching from the desert to the Atlantic Coast.Northern Nigeria couldn't pay its way while southern Nigeria generatedmore than enough revenue for its administrative expenses.The amalgamation laid the historical bitterness, rivalry, and enmitybetween the two colonial territories. The two colonies are quite theopposite of one another. The North is largely Muslim. It was thecenter of the erstwhile Islamic Empire called the Sokoto Caliphate.The Muslim North looks up to the Middle East and other parts of theMuslim world for affinity, solidarity, and sociopolitical model. TheSouth is largely Christian and highly influenced by the sociopoliticalpattern of the West and traditional African societies. This was thebeginning of a precarious foundation of our federalism. The foundations of true federalism are based on the concerns for theunity and integrity of a culturally diverse nation like ours. Ourhistorical experience is a sharp contrast to the important foundationsof federalism. Ours is a disruptive and disintegrative sectarianforces coupled with political rancor and instability prevailing sinceindependence.The lopsided power-sharing arrangement between the federal governmentand the states fuels precipitation and intensification of ethnicconflicts. The politics of ethnicity has remarkably retarded ournational development and has remained the sole engine that drives ourmodern history. The unjust monopoly of power and resources by thecentral government has galvanized the federating states to advocatefor the restructuring of the federal system. The Northerners havenever favored restructuring because the status quo guarantees them aperpetual hold on power and monopoly of resources at the center.Of the 58 years of independence, the northerners have been inpolitical and economic control of the central government for 40 years.They have always found it compelling to capture the centralgovernment. Indeed, they believe in the self-fulfilling prophecy thatthey “are born to rule Nigeria” forever. The arrogation and arroganceto be in perpetual control of the central government have furthermarginalized other federating units in the union.In all the years they have been in power at the center, thenortherners have used diverse strategies and tactics to maintain andperpetuate the grip on power at the federal level. For 40 years theyhave been responsible for the economic neglect and infrastructuraldecay of Nigeria. Full of monumental incompetence, they are theunrepentant pirates and predators of our economy. Because of theirlong hold on power at the center, they, more than any other ethnicgroup in Nigeria, hindered the process of national development andintegration.For all these years, the northerners who headed the central governmentare icons of corruption. National funds allocated for developmentsnever reached the target groups and purpose.Agreed all the different ethnicities that have served as Nigeria'sHeads of State or Presidents have performed woefully abysmal. However,the northerners who have been in charge for most of the years are themost generously deficient in democratic leadership. They lacksacrifice, courage, initiative, imagination, wisdom, and vision. Thenortherners have exhibited crass incompetence more profoundly than anyof the groups because they have no idea of what participatoryleadership, servant leadership, transformation leadership,super-leadership, and value leadership mean.They have consistently opposed progressive ideas that would chip awaytheir hold on the center. The northerners have always fought againsteverything progressive and prosperous for true federalism. They opposedevolution of power (restructure), resource control, derivationprinciple, revenue sharing formula, state police, and the developmentand exploitation of mineral resources nationwide. In fact, they wantthe current 13 percent derivation to be further reduced.The latest assault from the Fulani hegemonic morons is coming fromEmperor Muhammadu Buhari who has completely dismantled the bedrock ofour democracy: the rule of law. As if under a spell, Nigerians watchhelplessly without putting up any fight, the abrogation of anysemblance of rule of law by Buhari. Framed on trumped-up charges,Omoyele Sowore, the pro-democracy activist and former presidentialcandidate will be arraigned in court today. Sowore is standing trialon 7-count charge for treason, money laundering, insulting thepresident, among others. He has been detained for almost 60 days.Emperor Buhari, a Sunni Muslim, refused to release Sowore on bail asruled by the court. We consider the systemic persecution andoppression of Sowore as a declaration of war against the Yoruba race.To Yoruba bastards, prodigals, crumb eaters, backstabbers, traitors,alatenujes, and akindanidanis and others who hold cabinet positions inBuhari administration are the willing allies and ready tools in thehands of Buhari. I have a word for you: Stop selling your birthrightsfor a bowl of amala. Stop playing second fiddle to Buhari. Stopselling your own people to Buhari and Fulani terrorists. Now is thetime for all Yorubas regardless of party persuasion and religiousaffiliation to come together and fight the Fulani oppressors and getout of this doomed nation... It’s Oduduwa or nothing else!This is it. The battle lines are drawn. Yorubas, consider this: Whyshould we continue to elect these political parasites into officewhose agenda is not the Nigerian agenda? Why should we abdicateleadership of this nation to the narrow-minded, selfish, power-hungryfeudal imperialists? What are we doing with northerners known fortheir deformed vision and spineless leadership?Yoruba Ronu!