Sahara Reporters Media  Nigerian High Commissioner in South Africa, Kabiru Bala, has called on all Nigerians affected by ongoing xenophobic attacks in that country to report to the embassy and document their complaints. According to Bala, a list of victims is being compiled by the high commission to address the issue. The latest development follows a report by SaharaReporters on Monday where it was revealed that the Nigerian Embassy in South Africa shut its door on Nigerian victims of the attacks, who approached the embassy for help. SaharaReporters revealed that the latest attacks against nationals of other African countries domiciled in South Africa, which started on August 28, 2019, had spread to several parts of that country, raising fears of more violence especially among Nigerians. 



See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: Nigerian Embassy Shuts Door On Nigerians Attacked In South Africa
11 Comments
18 Hours Ago Some Nigerians resident in South Africa, who spoke to SaharaReporters, confirmed the situation to our correspondent on Monday. But in its reaction on Tuesday through a statement, the Nigerian High Commission in South Africa said that the governments of both countries will hold diplomatic talks to address the attacks on Nigerians and other African migrants. Bala said, “The High Commission of Nigeria in Pretoria views with concern the ongoing loss of lives, arson, and looting of properties in some parts of Gauteng Province of South Africa. “Some of the victims of the anarchy are Nigerians and other Africans. “The High Commission and the Consulate in Pretoria and Johannesburg are compiling the list of all the Nigerian victims of the current anarchy for engagement with the South African Government and other stakeholders for succour. “In this regard, all Nigerian victims of the current attacks are requested to come forward to report their situation to the high commission and the consulate. “The two missions will continue to be home to all Nigerians in this trying times and in the future. “Since the outbreak of the attacks last week, the two missions have remained open and continued to render normal services to Nigerians and other customers without hindrance.”