The police in Benue State say they have uncovered hidden graves inGbatse village with 11 bodies of people suspected to have been killedby kidnappers in Ushongo Local Government Area of the state just as alocal government official released the names of the victims.The Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Catherine Anene, toldjournalists in Makurdi.Anene said one suspect was arrested, adding that “as soon as weconclude interrogating him, we will give out the full information".It was gathered that the suspect, a gang leader of kidnap and armedrobbery syndicate, was arrested following a tip-off by members of thecommunity. The suspect and his gang were alleged to have killed theirvictims and buried them after collecting their motorcycles in order toconceal their crime and to avoid arrest.A resident of Ushongo town, who spoke on the condition of anonymity,said of the recovered bodies, six have been identified by relatives ofthe victims while five were yet to be identified. There are strongindications that many bodies are still lying in the shallow graves.The Guardian reports that many of the victims were young persons intheir 20s. The ringleader of the syndicate group, identified asIorwuese Kpila, alias Dr. Kwagh Akoronmenenge, was arrested with sixother members of his syndicate.According to police authorities, the hideout of Kpila is located at ahilltop surrounded by some thatch houses and a shrine. It was gatheredthat a few days ago, the district head of Mbagwaza, Chief JuliusKpenkpen called his Mbayegh counterpart, Chief Nathaniel Hoyo andinformed him that two Okada riders in his jurisdiction were missing.The district head of Mbayegh summoned a meeting of leaders of the twocommunities and demanded that the family of the kidnap kingpin (Kpila)should produce him. Eventually, the suspect showed up on Monday in thehome of Chief Hoyo who handed him and four other accomplices over tothe police for investigation as they confessed to the killing andburial of numerous victims.Speaking with journalists in Ushongo at the site of the incident,Governor Samuel Ortom said, “We will get to the root of kidnapping inthe state. They will be fished out to face the law. All kidnappers inflash point local councils, including Vandeikya, Logo, Ukum, Kwande,and Katsina-Ala will be apprehended. My government will not surrenderthe state to criminals."The council chairman, Bemsen Agugu, gave the names of the victims toinclude Aondowase Akaahar; Terlumun Tema-Shangev-Ya, Kwande LG,Ushahemba Ulughf from Mbakyaa, Shangev-ya, Kwande LG; Avakaa Ademafrom Tse Akanyi-Mbarumun, Nanev Kwande LG; Tughgba Akosu fromMbakua-Abenga, Nanev, Kwande LG; Ushahemba Adasu from Mbagbera,Vandeikya LG; and Aondohemba Kunav beside General Hospital, Vandeikya.Others are Terkaa Wanshila from Mbarumun-Nanev, kwande LG; IorhembaTemase Asongo from Tse Jev-Mbangor, Shangev-Ya, Kwande LG; Terfa Atifrom Mbagwaza, Ushongo LG; and TYokuia Ankyo from Mbagwaza, UshongoLG.Those arrested, according to the chairman are Mr. Iorwuese kpila akaDr. kwagh akorom menenge; Tersoo Agee Agabi Charles, Mr. Ortema akaten tyres and Mr. Chiahemba Baa.