Bayo Oluwasanmi Criticism and confrontation come with the position of a president. Apresident should be aware of two truths: First, he’ll be criticized.Second, criticism always changes a president. How a president handlescriticisms can make or break his administration.A wise president handles criticisms by maintaining his humility and byfacing the criticism squarely. He should understand the differencebetween constructive and destructive criticism by not seeing only thecritic, but by seeing the crowd: is the criticism widespread? Thepresident should wait for time to prove his critics wrong.A president handles criticism by concentrating on his mission andvision, and by correcting his mistakes. So far, the way PresidentMuhammadu Buhari handles criticisms and hounds critics shows the guiltof indiscretion, lack of judgment, poor choices, and just plainnonsense.The autocratic style of Alhaji Muhammadu Buhari reminds me of aGeneral who forgot the real boss - the Nigerian people. When apresident forgets whom he serves, he quickly falls prey to the basesthuman instincts. One of the deadliest things that can disqualify anddestroy a president is unrestrained vengeance. Any president whocannot humble himself to serve the people who elect him into officewill act out selfish motives and hurt the nation and people.When a president lost sight of his vision, he sets out to serve hisown selfish interests. In the end, his selfishness and stubbornnesswill cost him everything.Why #RevolutionNow?Revolutions don’t just happen. Something had to cause them. There aregrievances or complaints against  Buhari. Yes, the grievances haveusually been ignored for years by previous administrations. Peoplehave become impatient with the slow pace of change and worseningconditions have become unbearable. It is the responsibility of theincumbent president to turn things around within a relatively shortperiod. Then there’s a spark to ignite the revolution. Herein comesOmoyele Sowore - the dynamite that sets off the time bomb of#RevolutionNow. Now that the fuse had been lit, the arrest andcontinued detention of Sowore continued to fuel #RevolutionNow.As citizens, do we have a right to revolt against Alhaji Buhari’sregime which has failed to protect our lives and properties? Do wehave a right to revolt against the inept and corrupt government ofBuhari? Do we have a right to demand the basic necessities of life -jobs, hospital, infrastructure, electricity, treated water, soundeducation, good schools, a livable wage, safety and security, publictransportation, name it?Do we have the right to protest against Buhari’s nepotism, selectiveand miscarriage of justice, corruption, oppression, and other ancientevils that have become the trademark of Buhari’s directionlessgovernment?  Of course, it is morally right to revolt againstoppressive and repressive government of Buhari. It is also politicallyright to overthrow Buhari peacefully through prolonged and sustainedagitation and protests.#RevolutionNow is for the long-term benefit of our nation. The primaryreason for the existence of government is to protect the security ofthe people. Having failed to secure the life and property of citizens,Buhari’s regime has no reason to exist a day longer than necessary. Nogovernment should have higher importance than the people. Indeed,people are the reason for any government.By the arrest and continued detention of Sowore and other vocalNigerians, Buhari is telling us that the street is not the place tosolve our problems. But we’re saying the street was and still is theplace. The voice of the street is the only choice left for us becausethe ballot box failed us, the president failed us, the system failedus, the lawmakers failed us. #RevolutionNow is here to stay until ithas achieved its purpose by installing a truly democratic governmentof the people, by the people, and for the people... Let’s go there!