  The Nigeria Police Force arrested Agba Jalingo on 22 August 2019 inconnection to a story he published on the 17 July 2019 at theCrossRiver Watch news platform, titled, 'How Ayade Approved andDiverted N500 Million For Cross River Micro Finance Bank'.Jalingo is a journalist, right activist and the publisher Cross RiverWatch – an online syndicated news platform with huge followership andtopnotch professionals. Following the publication, the Jalingoreceived an Invitation Letter from the police titled, 'InvestigationActivities: Re: Conspiracy to Cause Unrest and Conduct Likely toBreach Public Peace dated the 14th day of August 2019'.Jalingo was asked by the police in Cross River State in theaforementioned letter to report to their station on the 19th of August2019. Jalingo responded to the letter from the police adding that hewasn't in Cross River State at the time but he will be available atthe police station on the 26th of August 2019. The police in a Gestapooperation stormed Jalingo's house in Lagos on 22 August 2019.He was deviously abducted by the men of the Nigerian police and takenby road on a ten hours journey to Cross River State. Since then thepolice have not charged him to court rather they have kept himindiscriminately in detention where his health is deteriorating. Thepolice must be cautioned to note that our laws have not changed. Thatpolice brutality and the gross violation of citizen’s right is not apart of our laws. The Nigerian must also take a good observation ofthe damages it has caused the masses its quest to silence thecitizens.The law is that upon arrest for whatsoever reason the police isexpected to grant bail to the suspect or charge him to court within 24hours or at most 48 hours. Where the police wish to detain a suspectfor more than the above constitutionally required time it must get acourt order to that effect. The police in dereliction of their dutyarrested Jalingo and since then they have committed him to detentionand continued to violate his right as guaranteed under section 35 ofthe 1999 constitution as amended. He has not been charged to court,the police have equally refused to grant him bail contrary to theprovisions of law. This criminal lawlessness of the Nigerian police isa huge threat to our democracy and we must collectively fight againstit in the interest of our nation.As a journalist, it's Jalingo's constitutional duty to hold governmentaccountable to the people as provided for under section 22 of the 1999constitution as amended which states as follows, “the press, radio,television and other agencies of mass media shall at all times be freeto uphold the fundamental objectives contained in this chapter anduphold the responsibility and accountability of the government to thepeople".The role of a journalist or the media therefore as the fourth estateof the realm is a constitutional obligation which set the tone for arobust democratic dispensation. It's therefore an offence for anindividual or the government to works against the media, to stifle itsoperation and sacred objective.The law equally has made provisions and safeguards to curb the abuseof this constitutional objective. Where a story turns out to be falseor published in bad faith, the aggrieved party can bring an action fordefamation in a court of law to seek redress. There are alsoregulatory bodies and pressure groups across Nigeria that regulatesthe conduct of media professional to ensure that the ethics andprofessional conduct of the profession is held in a good light.It’s not for anyone to engage the police in a perceived civilinfraction when the law already has made provision and remedies toprotect an aggrieved party in situations like this.The Governor of Cross River State - Mr. Ben Ayade ought to have knownthat employing the police to intimidate a journalist is bad strategy.The matter in question is a civil case and it requires no policeintervention. The Governors and the police are still struggling withhow to come up with an offense in respect of this case and that isbecause you cannot reverse a civil infraction into a criminal case.You cannot repress the voice of reason and caution in a democracy.The reign of terror is over!Ayade is hereby charged with immediate effect to order the police torelease Jalingo in his own interest or face the wrath of the massesand posterity.The spurious claims made by the police that Jalingo's arrest is alsopartly linked to Sowore's #RevolutionNow is unfounded and laughable.This is what happens when you arrest people thoughtlessly. It put youin serious trouble because your action abinitio was orchestrated underhuge deposited of ignorance and a crass unseating contempt ofarrogance. Nigeria is gradually falling apart under its owncontradictions and the police stand in the center of this ruin. Ifthis country keeps Sowore and Jalingo any much further than this,history will keep this scarlet in our sleeves and show this to usforever.The government must respect human right. There is no nation, faith orcreed that is greater than being human.