Inside the dormitory of the Minna Remand Home in Niger State, not upto the size of a normal room, without mattresses and fans to reducethe effect of the scorching heat in the month of March, about 30children are held in chains for various offences.An overpowering stench from the crowded dormitory welcomes any firsttime visitor.With their emaciated bodies in torn clothes, they hurried to theiropen bathroom taking turns for ablution for the 4 pm Muslim prayers.At mealtime, they scooped cooked rice from the little bowl on the floor.“We are suffering here,” said Suleiman Adamu, a 12-year old boy andpupil of Alfitra Primary School, Tunta, Minna, who was brought to thehome in March 2019 over the loss of parental control.“I was brought here by my father whom I was living with together withmy step-mother. My step-mother accused me of stealing her wrapper.Immediately I got here, I was put in chains so that I do not run away;you can see I’m still in chains and I don’t know who will rescue mefrom this problem,”Adamu explained almost in tears as he urged thereporter to reach out his parents who live inAbdulsalam’s Quarters inMinna metropolis.Most of the under-aged inmates standing criminal prosecution by thepolice have not been taken to court for trial.Harande Buba, 13, who was remanded for alleged culpable homicide basedon the orders of the Chief Magistrate Court 1 in Minna on April 12,2017, said he had not been charged to court.Narrating the incident that led to his incarceration, Harande saidwhat started as a mere child’s play soon developed into a seriousfight that led to his victim’s death.“The boy I was fighting hit me with a stick and in retaliation, I useda machete on him which led to his death.“Since I came to this home in April 2017, I have not been to court.Nobody cares to check on me. We do not feed well here, because wedon't have food. We wash our clothes without soap, and that is why ourroom smells. Life is so difficult here,” Harande said.Located in the heart of Minna capital city, the remand home brims withchildren whose hopes and dreams have been dashed for alleged violationof the law.For Usama Haruna, a 12-year-old boy who aspires to be an engineer, thethought of being held in shackles at the home is the worst experienceof his life.“Though my parents are poor with mother doing menial jobs such as dishand clothe washing in private homes and restaurants, and my father ascavenger, it is my dream that someday I will work hard to become anengineer, then I will take care of my parents and siblings.“ I regret the offence that has brought me into this remand home. Myparents do not know my whereabouts. We were arrested by the policefrom Suleja and brought to Minna. Please go to Suleja and inform mymother that I’m being held here,” Usama appealed to the reporter astears welled up his eyes.On visiting Suleja a satellite town of about an hour 30 minutes’ drivefrom Minna, due largely to the deplorable state of the Minna-Sulejahighway, our correspondent met Usama’s mother, Fatima Huruna, inSuleja at Saida Low-Cost Housing Estate, where the family resides inone - room gatehouse.“One evening in March 2019, we waited for Usama to come home becausehe used to accompany his father to his scavenging work. He was nowhereto be found, we began to ask after him. Someone told us that he mighthave been arrested by the police and taken to Minna.“ But we have no money to travel to Minna to look for him. That is whywe are praying to Allah that one day he would return home,” Usama’smother told the reporter.Usama is being tried at the Magistrates’ Revenue Court 3B of AngwanDaji in Minna for the alleged defilement of 6-year-old girl. Anoffence he allegedly committed in Suleja in February 2019.But Haranda, Suleiman and Usama are lucky as they are at a remandhome, not locked up with adult inmates in a regular prison system. Notso for Happiness Kure, a 16-year-old girl, who is languishing at theSuleja Medium Prison, Niger State.The Suleja Medium Prison, which is sandwiched by residentialbuildings, was built in 1914, according to prisons authorities.Though our correspondent was not allowed into the female section ofthe Suleja prison,  Happiness told our reporter that shares her prisoncell in the awaiting trial inmates’ block with eleven other adultinmates.“Our condition of living here is miserable. When I first got to thisprison in February last year, we were initially five in our room; Ihad my own separate mattress from other women. But later, one afterthe other, we are now eleven in the same room that is meant for fiveof us, including my mother who is breastfeeding my kid sister.“Our toilet and bathrooms are very dirty with broken pipes. Water is abig problem for us. We don’t feed well. Whenever my kid sister fallssick here in prison, there is no clinic to take care of her. Some ofthe prison warders often help us to buy drugs from outside, andwhenever lawyers visit, that is when they bring some drugs and fooditems for us. The situation we are facing at Suleja prison isterrible,” Happiness lamented.Her tortuous journey to incarceration began in February 2018 followingthe alleged murder of her father by her fleeing boyfriend, theembattled teenager told our correspondent.Though standing trial alongside her nursing mother, Asabe Kure, at anAbuja High Court at Gwagwalada, the police is yet to call a singlewitness in the case."Since I came to this prison in February 2018, my education came to anend. You can see that my mother and little sibling who is just twelvemonths old are also being held here for the same alleged offences. Ourcondition here is unbearable. The most painful part of our situationat the Suleja prison is the fact that I cannot go to school. Does thatmean our lives are over?" Happiness wondered in a cracking voice.From Minna to Suleja, Markurdi to Port Harcourt, there is not muchdifference in the conditions of the children who are languishing inprisons/borstal institutions across the country; without education inmost cases and locked up in adult prisons contrary to constitutionalprovisions.According to a Prison Census report of 2016 by the PrisonersRehabilitation and Welfare Action (a non-governmental organization)with over two decades of critical interventions in prisons reforms inNigeria,  child prisoners make up 43.2 percent in Enugu, 25.9 percentinKano and 30.9 percent in Lagos prisons respectively.The Child’s Rights Act of Nigeria enacted in 2003 makes ampleprovisions for children who are in conflict with the law. According toPart Two Section 11 of the Act, “Every child is entitled to respectfor the dignity of his person and accordingly, no child shall besubjected to torture, inhuman or degrading treating or punishment,held in slavery or servitude, while in care of a parent, legalguardian or school authority or any other person or authority havingthe care of the child.”Similarly, Section 15 dwells on the Right of a Child to Free,Compulsory and Universal Primary Education. It says, “Every child hasthe right to free, compulsory and universal basic education and itshall be the duty of the government in Nigeria to provide sucheducation.” While Section 212 borders on Detention Pending Trial,Sub-section (2) provides that, “While in detention, a child shall begiven care, protection and necessary assistance including social,educational, vocational, medical and physical assistance, that he mayrequire having regard to his age, sex and personality.”When asked why fetters are put on the inmates’ feet, theOfficer-in-Charge of the Children Remand Home in Minna, Hajiya HadizaMohammed, explained that it is to prevent them from absconding.“We do this to especially new children that are brought into the homebecause we are not familiar with them. We also put the chains onstubborn and badly behaved inmates. But after a while, when we musthave observed that the inmates have improved in their behavior, letthem off the chains,” Hajiya Mohammed said.While the child inmates in Niger State are chained, the situation isdifferent at the Port-Harcourt Remand Home in Rivers State as they areallowed to move freely within the compound located at Nembe Street,Borokiri.The home, according to the Officer-in-Charge, Mrs. Joy Ololube, ishowever overwhelmed by the daily challenge of inadequate feeding andothers."We are overwhelmed by the challenges of difficulty of conveying thechildren to the court during the hearing of their suits. Most of theseinmates have not been to court for trial for the past two years. Also,the Approved School which is supposed to provide education and skillsfor the children has since closed down due to lack of resources to runthe school,"She also disclosed that when inmates fall sick, there are nohealthcare facilities to deal with emergencies.“We rush them to the nearby Naval Base hospital which is directlyopposite our home. But at a point, the Naval authorities became tiredof our problems and they began to reject our children. These are thechallenges we battle with every day,” Mrs. Olulube said.An 18-year-old inmate, Daniel Okon, said he was remanded at the homein 2015 for murder charges when he was 14 years old by the JuvenileCourt 2, Port-Harcourt, and since then had not been to court due tonon-availability of a vehicle that would convey him to court." I was a JSS 2 student of Community Secondary School, Udung-Uko inAkwa Ibom State. But since I came to the remand home, my education hasstopped. Now, I do not know what to do. I want to appeal to both thegovernors of Akwa Ibom and Rivers states to come to my aid. I need togo back to school and complete my education," Okon pleaded.Another inmate, Tuanwii Joseph, a 17-year-old was only 14 years oldwhen he found himself in the remand home in Port-Harcourt."I came into the Port-Harcourt Remand Home in 2016 as a result of themurder case. The problems we are faced with here is the fact that ourtrials are stalled and we don't have the opportunity to continue withour education. I got here when I was Junior Secondary School 3. Butsince I was remanded by the Juvenile Court 2, I have not been to courtand there is no school for me to attend in the remand home. Life is sodifficult for us here. You can see for yourself that this home is aplace of suffering. We need help," Joseph stated.Asked why the Port-Harcourt remand home was left unattended to by theRivers State government, Mrs. InimaAguma, Commissioner for SocialWelfare, explained that arrangements were being made to reposition thefacility for better service delivery.“ Before I was appointed commissioner, there were issues of feedingand lack of vehicles to convey the inmates to court, I have ensuredthere is proper feeding. I have also ensured that a doctor comes inonce in a while to examine the children. Also, the Rivers Stategovernment is working assiduously to get the Approved School back onstream for the inmates," Mrs. Inima disclosed.The plight of inmates at the Benue Remand Home in Gboko is equallyheartrending as the children also lack access to both formal andinformal education.With the roofs of the main building meant to house the inmates blownaway, the sixteen children are crammed into a small room where theyshare one bathroom and toilet.Mrs. Apaa Dorathy, who is the officer-in-charge of the home, notedthat the facility lacks water, electricity supply as well as a vehicleto ferry the inmates to court for trial.She explained that the trial of inmates had been stalled due to lackof legal representation.While there is a furnished classroom stocked with books for theinmates, there are no teachers to impart the desperately neededknowledge that the children yearn for. This situation, Mrs. Apaa said,was caused by the precarious security situation in the state, whichhas prevented the posting of members of the National Youth ServiceCorps (NYSC) to the home."This is the only correctional centre in the state that caters for the23 local governments. We are being confronted by a number ofchallenges that require urgent intervention given the fact that thesechildren who have come in conflict with the law are the future of thesociety, and therefore should be properly rehabilitated andreintegrated into the society."However, that is not the case as our mandate is hampered by the lackof resources like mobility to convey the inmates to court for trial.We lack water and electricity here as you can see. Our school lacksteachers, and therefore, it's not functioning. So, how do we cater forthe needs of transforming these inmates into better citizens," Mrs.Appa said.An inmate the Gboko remand home, ThankgodUnogwu (14), a JSS 2 studentof Jesus Comprehensive College, Eke-Olengbecho in Okpokwu LGA of BenueState, was remanded at the home last October over cultism relatedoffences."Life is difficult for us here. We just stay here without going tocourt, let alone going to school. Even feeding and water is a bigproblem here. Only God can deliver us from what we have foundourselves. I regret the crime I have committed, but I need a secondchance at life to become a better person," Unogwu said.The problems were corroborated by the Benue State Chief Judge, JusticeAondaver Kakaan, who described the conditions of the children as"horrible"."What the children need is reformation, but that is not the case. Thestate government has not been forthcoming in that regard. It is so sadthat these inmates have to live in subhuman conditions."We have been making efforts to establish the family court as requiredby law. However, we don't have the funds to execute the mandate. Theissue of juveniles can only be tackled through reformation," JusticeKakaan said.However, at the Borstal Institute in Kaduna State, the schoolauthorities said their inmates have facilities for both formal andinformal education."Our inmates have most of the facilities for formal education andskill acquisition. Our inmates take the Senior School CertificateExamination (SSCE). However, we have some challenges that requiregovernment interventions such as the expansion of facilities in theinstitute," a staff who pleaded anonymity told our reporter.The staff who also declined to comment on the number of inmates beingheld at the Borstal Institute, equally turned down the request by ourcorrespondent to go into the inmates' dormitories to speak with someof the inmates."You know we don't allow outsiders into the dormitories or interactwith the inmates," the warden said.Upon arriving at the heavily guarded facility, located at Barnawa inKaduna, the huge buildings and spacious premises give an impression ofa fully functional home for children. However, a couple whose childwas being held at the institution, was seen with a sack of food itemslike garri and provisions, among others.When asked why they were at the home, the mother of the inmate whopleaded anonymity, said: “My husband and I come regularly to donatefood items to the institution as a way of supporting them for betterservice delivery, because the children are too many and, as a result,they do not feed well. We can only appeal to the government to help ustake good care of the children in the home by providing a suitableenvironment for their education.”Constitutional prohibition against denial of basic educationThe Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, presided by Justice JohnTsoho in February 2017 held that children have the right to free,compulsory basic education.Although the right to free education in Section 18(3)(a) of theConstitution was ordinarily not enforceable like all other rightsprovided for in the Chapter 2 of the Constitution, the Compulsory,Free Universal Basic Education Act of 2004 enacted by the NationalAssembly has elevated the right to an enforceable status.This provision was the basis for the judgement of Justice John Tsohoof the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja.In his verdict, the judge held that both the federal and stategovernments were constitutionally required to provide adequate fundingfor the free education scheme.The judgment followed a suit filed by a group, the Legal Defence andAssistance Project (LEDAP).Justice Tsoho held that the failure of any government at the state andfederal levels to fund the scheme would constitute a breach of theConstitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.Expert views on the issueThe Executive Director of PRAWA, Dr. Uju Agomoh decried the conditionsin which under-aged children are being held."The current conditions of these homes are deplorable as they areconsistently deteriorating. An urgent and sustainable interventionmust be made by both the government and private individuals toreposition these homes for better service delivery. Anything short ofthat the society will pay for it dearly. The children must berehabilitated in all ramifications," Agomoh said.Existing Borstal homes in Nigeria include: Borstal TrainingInstitution in Barnawa, Kaduna State, Borstal Training InstituteGanmo, Kwara State and the Borstal Training Institute Abeokuta, OgunState.The Borstal Institutions and Remand Centres Act 1962 mandates theremand of offenders between the ages of 16-21.During a recent visit to the Nigeria Prisons Akwa in Anambra State,the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), disclosed that about 523children were being held at the facility.During the commemoration of the 2019 African Pre-trial Day themed:"Decriminalisation of Petty and Minor Offences," the Anambra StateCoordinator of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Mrs.NkechiUgwuanyi, decried the high number of underage inmates at theprison. Illegal trial of the inmatesAccording to the trial magistrate at the Rivers State Juvenile Court,Mrs. Ibiere Foby, the current circumstance where underage inmates aretried using the Child's Rights Act with a properly constituted familycourt as prescribed by the law, constitutes a gross violation of therights of the defendants to fair hearing.She explained that an ideal family court should have a magistrate andtwo assessors to hear and determine suits concerning children who comein conflict with the law. But that is not the case.“ You can see I am the only magistrate sitting in the Juvenile Court here."When asked on the legal implications, Foby said, "If matters tried bythe Juvenile Court go on appeal, they will be dismissed on the groundsthat the trial court is not properly constituted as required by theChild Rights Act. Here in Rivers we have the Young Persons Law, whichis an archaic piece of legislation."Similarly, an official of the Rivers State Ministry for SocialWelfare, who did not want his name in print said: "The remand home isbasically for children whose parents have lost parental control overthem, and children who are convicted of minor offences to be held fornot more than six months. While the borstal home is a juvenile prison."So, what we are doing in terms of children who are in conflict withthe law, is unconstitutional. But due to the non-availability ofresources to do the proper things, we have to make do with what wehave."Composition of the Family CourtSection 153 (3) of the Child’s Rights Act provides that, “The court atthe Magistrate Level shall be duly constituted if it consists of – aMagistrate, two assessors, one of whom shall be a woman and the otherperson who has attributes of dealing with children and mattersrelating to children, preferably the area of child psychologyeducation.”The Child’s Rights Act of Nigeria enacted in 2003 makes ampleprovisions for children who are in conflict with the law. According toPart Two Section 11 of the Act, “Every child is entitled to respectfor the dignity of his person and accordingly, no child shall besubjected to torture, inhuman or degrading treating or punishment,held in slavery or servitude, while in care of a parent, legalguardian or school authority or any other person or authority havingthe care of the child.”Similarly, Section 15 dwells on the Right of a Child to Free,Compulsory and Universal Primary Education. It says, “Every child hasthe right to free, compulsory and universal basic education and itshall be the duty of the government in Nigeria to provide sucheducation.” While Section 212 borders on Detention Pending Trial.Sub-section (2) provides that, “While in detention, a child shall begiven care, protection and necessary assistance including social,educational, vocational, medical and physical assistance, that he mayrequire having regard to his age, sex and personality.”FIDA Nigeria’s Reaction to the IssueThe International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) Nigeria describedthe plight of underage inmate in the country “disturbing.” FIDA Nigeria’s President, Rhoda Prevail Tyoden, while reacting to ourfindings, said the country’s Child’s Rights Act which is meant to helpchildren who come in conflict with the law, is not being implemented. “We have the Child’s Rights Act that is meant to tackle the issue, butit is not being implemented. If the Act is fully implemented you won’thave a situation whereby children are locked up in prisons with adult. “The Child’s Right Act and the Young Persons Law spell out how thisgroup of people should be treated. But we have a system where theselaws are not well implemented. The Act says we need to have FamilyCourts; comprising of Magistrates and assessors. The Family Courtshould be functional to address these issues, but it is unfortunatethe courts are not working. “Secondly, we should have borstal homes across all the states of thefederation, but only three or four states have such facilities; whenwe have children in conflict with the law in all the states of thecountry.” “FIDA Abuja which I belong as a branch; we go to Suleja Prison and wesee teenagers there, and we try to get them out if it is a bailableoffence. Sadly, these children are locked up together with adultprisoners. We often say the youth are the fulcrum of every nationaldevelopment, but when children are locked up in prisons, then where isthe future of the country,?” Tyoden queried. “Children who are in conflict with the law should not be dealt with ascriminals, because they are supposed to be in a place where they wouldrealise their mistakes and you take them through the process ofrehabilitation. “We have enough laws that can cover every kind of offence in Nigeriabut the issue we have is the implementation of the law, the governmenthas simply refused to implement this law.And that is why we are nowadvocating for the adoption of the VAPP Act. We now have ten statesthat have adopted it.” The association recommended the sensitisation of Nigerians on theprevalence of social ills in the society as a way of helping to guidechildren away from crime. “It is not enough to have the laws; we should rather go roundsensitizing people through awareness programmes on the societal illsthat our laws have failed to effectively tackle, because we have thelaws but the laws are not effective. “The political will to get the child right act implemented is notthere. The law covers everything; the dignity of the child, everythingshould be done in the best interest of the child,” the FIDA Presidentsaid. This investigation was supported by the Institute for War and PeaceReporting, IWPR, and the International Centre for InvestigativeReporting, ICIR