Sowore addressing young people
SaharaReporters Media A network of international human rights organizations and coalitionsmay soon adopt detained publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Soworeas a prisoner of conscience.In a statement on Monday, the Civil Society Network Against Corruption(CSNAC) said it was working with renown rights groups across the worldto ensure the Omoyele Sowore is adopted as a prisoner of conscience.The statement signed by CSNAC Chairman, Olanrewaju Suraju, expressedshock that the Nigerian authorities were making frivolous chargesagainst Sowore who has been in custody since August 5.The group also called for the release of Olawale Bakare, a member ofRevolution Now arrested in Osogbo, Osun State on August 5, Publisherof Cross Rivers Watch, Agba Jalingo and Ekanem Ekpo.The last two were arrested by the police and are yet to be taken to court.CSNAC said 'Reputable international right groups will soon adoptSowore as a Prisoner of Conscience unless the Federal Governmentrelease him immediately.He said, "The continuous detention of Mr. Sowore is an embarrassmentto Nigeria as a country. Everywhere we visit across the world peopleare asking questions about Mr. Sowore's detention. Many people do notunderstand the logic of laying charges of treason against Soworesimply because he used the word revolution. His incarcerationcontinues to put a question mark on the credibility of the Nigeriangovernment. Democracy dies when the culture of debate and thetradition of protest are lost."CSNAC said the Nigerian government has beyond imaginations embarrasseditself by charging Sowore with 'insulting the President'."It is even more ridiculous that he is being charged for insulting Mr.President and also for money laundering where money was legitimatelytransferred through the financial institutions. These are frivolouscharges aimed at seeking justification for his illegal arrest andcontinuous detention," it said.CSNAC said from indications, the Nigerian government was desperate topress charges against Sowore and ensure he is jailed at all cost.Suraju said Sowore was being hunted in part, due to series ofpublications in Sahara Reporters that consistently exposed corruptpractices in this and previous governments."Sowore is obviously a victim of vengeance. Corrupt politicians andsecurity chiefs whose dirty deals have consistently been exposed bySahara Reporters are looking for ways to settle scores. They think bybringing down Sowore, Sahara Reporters will die."Its an illusion to think by keeping Sowore in jail, Sahara Reporterswill be off the global network. This is a mistake because SaharaReporters has assumed the status of an independent entity," he said.CSNAC dismissed the charge of money laundering by the Department ofState Services, (DSS) saying it is an attempt to blackmail SaharaReporters and its publisher.Sowore was arrested on August 5 in Lagos. The FG had obtained ex parteorder granting his detention for 45 days.After keeping him for almost two months, he was charged with insultingPresident Muhammadu Buhari during a live programme on AriseTV. Thegovernment also accused him of treason.He was also charged for transferring $19,975 from his personal accountto Sahara Reporters.