  Ifeanyi Ejiofor, lawyer to leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, has spoken out from hiding after he was declared wanted by the Anambra State Police Command on Tuesday. Ejiofor said he was attacked without provocation and had lost everything since men of the Nigeria Police invaded and burnt down his house.In a 10-minute video on Wednesday, he explained what transpired and called on the international community and human rights organisations to intervene.Ejiofor said, “On Sunday, December 1, 2019, I was called at about 9pm by the DPO, he never passed any message to me. At about 6:00am, I got a call from my elder brother, Evang Emeka Ejiofo, that police, led by the Area Commander himself had invaded my premises.“I requested to speak with the Area Commander, which he obliged. I requested to know why they were in my house because I wasn’t around. He said they came to arrest one of my wards who participated in a local conflict. They however, demanded to see me, which I told him I wasn’t around but I would be back by 10:30am and would come see him in the station.“When I returned, I briefly had a discussion with my mother and on a second thought, I decided to go see the Area Commander in the company with my Uncle. “We were on our way to the Area Commanders office when I got a call from my younger brother that the police were in my house and they had opened fire on all living objects there.“I was surprised and decided to abort the movement and wait until I was further briefed on what was going on. My brother told me that about four persons had been killed and the entire house had been set ablaze by the police.“I was confused as to what I had done to deserve this kind of treatment. I decided to take refuge within the neighborhood. “At the end, they took away the four corpses to a market along Onitsha emToad and burnt all of them and left.“However, when I read the police report, I was shocked to see the police claim that someone had lodged a complaint against me at about 11:30am when they actually came to my house at about 6am. “Is that sufficient enough to warrant using force on people they found in my premises, firing at random and killing people in the house, and burning the place. “I have just been informed that among people behind the carnage in my house is one businessman, who has built library in Katsina and also schools there. That he has undertaking from the Fulani caliphate that he is the only one that would see to my killing no matter the means he uses.“If the intention of the people who came to my house was to arrest me, they wouldn’t have done anything harmful. They would barely demand to see me, or worst case scenario, leave an invitation letter for me to come to the police.“The simple reason this happened is because they were actually interested in getting rid of me because I am defending members of IPOB and Nnamdi Kanu.“Only few days ago, I was told that two members of IPOB were gunned down by the police. This was a matter I was preparing to take up before they invaded my house.“I am calling on responsible bodies, international organisations, European Union, United Nations, United States, Amnesty International, and also United Kingdom to investigate the carnage in my house because I am homeless as I speak to you. They burnt down almost everything.“I can assure you that over 20 persons have been killed in my house on account of this incident. My mum was also shot and currently in a critical state."I don’t know the offence I have committed for being a lawyer to IPOB.”