  Residents of Rubochi Community in Kuje Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory, have decried the absence of security operatives in the community despite attacks by kidnappers. The community made the outcry following the kidnap of their ruler, Mohammed Ibrahim Pada, a few days ago. According to Daily Trust, Pada was arrested from his home by suspected kidnappers on November 27. A resident, Ezekiel Ayuba, said it was unfortunate that despite the area council chairman visiting the community immediately after the incident, no security personnel were deployed either from the area command or the FCT Police Command to patrol the community. Speaking on the abduction of his father,  Sadiq Ibrahim Pada, said the hoodlums took advantage of darkness to carry out the crime. Pada said three gunmen flashed torchlight on his face and asked him to take them to the room where the chief was sleeping, and that he told them that his father was not at home, but that one of the gunmen insisted that he must lead them to his father’s bedroom and threatened to kill him if he refused to do as told. According to him, one of the gunmen removed a machete and started stabbing him all over his body, while other ones stationed themselves inside and around the compound. He said, “When they came in, some of them positioned themselves inside the compound while others were at the front gate and back fence of the house. “When they were hitting me with a cutlass, they discovered that I didn’t sustain any injury, then one of them brought out another cutlass with charms and attacked me with it. That was when they inflicted injury on one of my eyes. “They first placed a small pot inside the compound and poured some charms inside and set fire on it, their guns failed to respond, until when one of them again brought a small mortar and placed on the ground and used leg to break it before their guns responded. "My father immediately went into his room and brought out money for them since they told him that it was money they were looking for. "Despite collecting money, they still took him away."