More than 72 hours after a policeman shot dead a truck driver along the Akure-Uso Road over the latter’s alleged refusal to offer a bribe, the police authorities in Ondo State has failed to reveal the identity of the killer cop. While the name of the truck driver has been revealed as Ado Saleh, the police continue to shield the officer involved in the gruesome killing of the victim. SaharaReporters gathered on Wednesday that the officer, who fired the shot that killed the driver, is a mobile policeman attached to the Ondo State Police Command. When contacted over the matter, spokesperson for the police in the state, Femi Joseph, said he could still not reveal the identity of the killer cop. Joseph disclosed that the police had begun investigation into the incident and had also apologised to family of the victim and general public. He said, "The Commissioner of Police in the state has already instructed that an investigation should be launched into the incident. "The command has also condemned the barbaric and gruesome murder of the driver in its entirety while we commiserate with the family of the deceased.” Meanwhile, the Nigerian Bar Association in the Owo area of Ondo, has condemned the gruesome killing of the truck driver by the unidentified policeman. The NBA in a statement by the branch Chairman, Tajudeen Ahmed, described as barbaric and unwarranted the killing of the driver, noting that the act was an affront on his constitutional rights to life and freedom of movement. Ahmed said, "We condemn in strong terms the dastard act of the police officer that led to the death of a citizen. "As an organisation whose major focus is ensuring the promotion of the rule of law, NBA Owo branch had always been concerned about the reckless, arbitrary and naked display of brutality by the policemen on Uso Road blocks. "In some cases members of our branch have had cause to intervene whenever policemen on Uso Road blocks are out to harass, assault and dehumanise commuters. "The killing of the innocent truck driver by the lawless, reckless and tactless police officer was the crescendo of the unsavoury acts of the policemen mounting road blocks at Uso. "NBA Owo branch calls on the Ondo State police command to ensure that the culprit of this killing is made to face the full wrath of the law.”