  Civil Society groups in Nigeria have again condemned the clampdown and attack on peaceful protesters in different states of the country. The CSOs stated that protest was a guaranteed right of Nigerians enshrined in the constitution while describing the attack on protesters especially by the Department of State Services as one that “brings back dark memories of the days of military dictatorship”. The CSOs said that fresh threats have begun to emerge against protests to demand for the release of Omoyele Sowore and other political prisoners in the country. “Our attention has been drawn to another in the series of draconian threats of the secret police against mobilisation by unarmed Nigerians for a nationwide protest to demand the release of Omoyele Sowore, Olawale “Mandate” Bakare, Agba Jalingo and all political prisoners, as well as for pro-poor people policies that will make life better for the masses. “Tyrannical rule is based on manipulation as well as repression. "This is the only reason why the DSS which had consistently disobeyed several subsisting court orders for the release of illegitimately detained persons including Sowore and Bakare can still have the effrontery of talking about law and order or peace and stability. “We the undersigned want to tell the world that the threats of the DSS is meant to save the face of Mr Yusuf Bichi, Director-General of the DSS; Mr Abubakar Malami, Attorney-General of the Federation and President Muhammadu Buhari. "Despite their deploying all the coercive, financial and propaganda resources of the state, the #RevolutionNow movement has remained steadfast and shown the regime for what it is, an authoritarian monstrosity in liberal democratic garb. “We have been able to do so because we stand on truth. "The true character of the regime is now crystal clear for the whole world to see. The truth is out and the everybody can see that the political prisoners are only being victimised for their indomitable defence of human and civil rights of the Nigerian masses.” The CSOs stated that no amount of intimidation by the DSS and other security agencies can move them as they remain unshaken and unbowed in the struggle against all anti-democratic forces. The CSOs are Coalition for Revolution, Committee for the Defense of Human rights, Rivers State Civil Society Coalition, Socialist Workers and Youths League, Alliance of Nigerian Students Against Neoliberal Attacks, United Action for Democracy and TakeitBack Movement's FreeSowore Committee.