  Youths in Oraifite under Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State on Monday reportedly killed two policemen for allegedly attacking the house of Ifeanyi Ejiofor, lawyer to the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu. A source in the area said, “In retaliation for the attack on the lawyer’s house, youths in the community killed two policemen and burnt them at the Nkwo Market  area of Oraifite. “The police may have gone to Ejiofor’s house in error thinking that the cult boys they were looking for were the ones who gathered in the IPOB lawyer’s house. “The police on reaching the lawyer’s house had an altercation with the IPOB members which led to the police opening fire on the IPOB members and in reaction, the angry youth of Oraifite mobilised and attacked the policemen and in the process, two policemen were killed and burnt.” It was gathered that the situation hindered vehicular movement for hours as the roads were deserted for fear of a possible mass arrest, a report by PUNCH said. Traditional ruler of Oraifite,  Igwe  Dan Udeorji, confirmed the incident but said he did not have details of the matter, adding that he was somewhere when  he received a text message about the incident. He said, “I think every problem can be settled through Dialogue instead of killing people. "We must maintain peace at all time; killing and rioting will not lead anybody to anywhere. "Government needs to re-educate the police and the army. Killing citizens is not the way.” When contacted, spokesperson for the police in the state, Haruna Mohammed, confirmed the incident. He said, “We’re on it. When we are through with our report on the issue, we shall make it public." Earlier, Kanu had alleged that the police and army killed three men when they invaded the house of his lawyer. In a statement, Kanu called on world bodies to ‘intervene in the intimation of IPOB members in Nigeria.’ He said, “Confirmed reports indicate that a combined team of Nigeria police and military assassination squad invaded the home of my lawyer, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, in Oraifite, Anambra State in a bid to kill him and his family. “Sadly, three innocent Biafrans were killed by the invading Fulani force at his residence. “This comes on the heel of yet another killing of two IPOB members who were peacefully gathered in Arondizuogu on Sunday December 1. Their bodies are still in the morgue. “Police and army must know that the time is fast approaching when British diplomatic clout and protection may not be enough to shield them from the consequences of their daily crimes against innocent Biafrans.”