 Men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, Imo State Police Command, have arrested a soldier, Boniface Nwachukwu, for alleged robbery, according to a report by PUNCH. As a result of his alleged involvement in robbery, Nwachukwu had been dismissed from the Nigerian Army and handed over to the police for prosecution. It was gathered that Nwachukwu, 48, was arrested on Christmas Day in an operation coordinated by the Special Anti-Robbery Squad Commander, CSP Victor Godfrey, in Onitsha, the commercial hub of Anambra State. A source stated, “The suspect was arrested for armed robbery and handed over to the army authority and he was immediately dismissed from service. “On December 25, 2019, at Onitsha in Anambra State, SARS operatives arrested one Boniface Njom Nwachukwu, 48. He was arrested in connection with a robbery incident on May 25, 2019, where our operatives arrested four soldiers in connection with armed robbery. “The victims, who are husband and wife, were dispossessed of their Toyota Avalon car and inflicted with serious injuries, while the robbers went away with their valuables. The suspect, Boniface Njom Nwachukwu, bought the stolen car for N200,000 from the robbers. “After collecting N200,000, a dismissed soldier, Usman Abubakar, and others ganged up and arrested Nwachukwu for buying a stolen vehicle and was released after he paid another N200,000. “The soldier, who was handed over to the military, was court-martialled and dismissed, and what is more, he was found guilty of armed robbery was formally handed over to us on December 25, 2019. “The vehicle used for the robbery, an ash Golf car with two different number plates, RLU 824 SG and WER 824 SG, has been recovered. The dismissed soldier confessed that his gang hit the victims car from the rear and when the victims stopped, they were dispossessed of their vehicle. “The operational car belonged to the dismissed soldier and it has been recovered. Both suspects have confessed to the crime. Investigation is currently ongoing.”