 The citizens' clarion call that the Department of State Services should be scrapped forthwith by the act of National Assembly and its operatives from top to bottom debriefed; re-educated, even rusticated or redistributed to other minimally functional paramilitary institutions like the Nigeria Police Force will no doubt heals the nation of the wounds from the vested madness and brutality the secret service has visited on the failed state called Nigeria. How best do we describe a beastly secret service or its operatives whose beastiality threatens national cohesion, the nation's constitution and the judiciary, democracy and its majestic ethos? Who need an obsolete self-serving stone age anti-democratic security outfit, with scant methodology on intelligence gathering, lacking in cybernetics sophistry without a single idea on how to tame real and actual security threats to the nation? The DSS needs internal purgation, and urgently too. Someone like Peter Afunanya, its spokesperson, should be thrown out of the window for further disgracing an ethically flawed institution which knew next to nothing about intelligence gathering,  solely masquerading as an attack dog for the presidency. The conundrum has been why furnish and burnish criminal government with false intelligence reports against the citizens when the real enemy of the state is the same vampire government? I have laboured in the past to educate the DSS and her collaborators that its protective alibi labelled "national security" is a mere subterfuge. The actual name is "regime security" coded as "national security" to defraud and cow uninformed citizens to submission. Citizens must not be given order by lawless secret service that can not differentiate between Boko Haram and social change agents and activists. Tragically, Peter Afunanya is a poor image maker for the DSS with his amateurish defence and blatant falsehood he puts forward on the several viral videos that signposted the desecration of the hall of justice at the Federal High Court, Abuja, on Friday by the DSS. Afunanya couldn't hide the fact that doing the bidding of a murderous tyrant is different from protective media anchorage. He could still not give valid reasons or answers as to why the DSS rearrested Omoyele Sowore after less than 24 hours after he was released on bail. Like the ostrich that he is, Afunanya buried his head and that of the DSS in the sand without a word on the abduction of the journalist and human rights activist in a bizarre and gangly despotic manner. Afunanya spilled poor half-truth on the secret service disgraceful outing without mentioning the commando-like but shameful exhibition of empty power in the midst of defenceless citizens. What's the usefulness of a discredited ethnically cultivated and motivated compromised secret service that could not decipher or detect activities of murderous militias like Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen long before they unleash terror on the nation? What's the DSS's day job when cultists kill themselves and cause mayhem on a daily basis across the country? What inform DSS open contempt for the judiciary and the law, if not misplaced intelligence computation, analysis and misplaced priority? It's time the National Assembly revisits the law that established the DSS for taking sadistic pleasure in dehumanising Nigerians. The DSS needs complete restructuring or outright scrapping from its present banality and rescue it away from being an appendage of any president in power or unlisted powerful individuals at the corridors of power. Without that, Nigerians would wake up one day and be told that the notorious scofflaw has created her own law courts where they (the DSS) can now do maximum violence to Nigerian citizens, democracy and civilisation. Email: ikhideerasmus@gmail.com Follow me on Twitter @ikhide_erasmus1 