  The Inter-Party Advisory Council election in Kwara State ended in rancour as 31 political parties in the state resolved to conduct a parallel election. The election, which was coordinated by Alhaji Ganiu Galadima, was described as biased and one staged to fit the agenda of the commission. The political parties had alleged that IPAC and INEC connived "to present fake names and imposters as party leadership in the state”. Chairman of Action Democratic Party in Kwara, Adesina Lukman Ajisafe, who spoke on behalf of the aggrieved political parties, said INEC had been compromised. He also said that INEC had bought over some political parties using the divide and rule policy to achieve its agenda in the state. He added that the parties decided to hold parallel IPAC election because they could not trust Galadima and INEC to conduct a credible election in Kwara State. He said, “We discovered so many discrepancies from INEC in Kwara State and IPAC sent from the national level. “There were so many daylight robberies, we say enough is enough and we have decided to take the bull by the horn. “INEC has not been able to give us the desired performance. We have been requesting for the list of the registered political parties in Kwara State from INEC but they did not give us. “To our dismay, we discovered that after collecting the list from INEC, at the venue of election, another list emerged where names of people who are known political parties in the state have been changed and removed. “While some of our names were missing, in another instance, some had the right names but other information were forged.” Chairman of the African Action Congress, Buhari Olanrewaju Ahmed, accused INEC and Galadima of being bias and recognising expelled members of the party as valid members. He narrated that Leonard Ezenwa, expelled Secretary of the party, who now parades himself as chairman, sent “an imposter” to represent the party. He said, “Leonard sent an imposter as chairperson to impersonate Buhari Olanrewaju Ahmed, the authentic party chairman of AAC. “We wonder overnight how Galadima would call Leonard the National Chairman of AAC, and also order security personnel to manhandled Buhari Olanrewaju Ahmed out of the hall.” The 31 political party chairmen after conducting their parallel election, urged INEC to summon the leadership of the electoral umpire in the state to make public the official list of all registered parties in the state. 