Peter Esele The old man was dressed in an elaborate outfit he had obviouslyoutgrown. It must have been a relic from the past, a reminder of thestatus he once possessed. He was pleased with himself all the same andseemed oblivious to his ill-fitting, riotously coloured regalia. Thiswas his birthday, 59 no less and part of his annual ritual was todress for the occasion. He always looks forward to the celebrationbecause it coincided with his country’s independence day. Withpatriotic fervour, he made it a point of duty to participate in anyaccessible independence day commemorations. Last year, he was toobroke to make it to the march past so he sat in front of his box TV,dressed to the nines and listened to the Presidential speech.He stood to attention at the end of it. This year, he was determinedto make it outside and was all anticipation in spite of hischallenges. His Mercedes 230, a museum piece as far as his neighbourswere concerned, had acted up that morning. Neither he nor hisbeleaguered godson turned driver could figure out the problem. He hadchildren who felt nothing for him by way of commitment. After all, heinvested very little in them. And when he throws biblical scripturesat them, they retort with the same- “you cannot reap where you did notsow".The same biblical rhetoric was thrown at the situation with theuncooperative car. “The devil is a liar” he screamed as he stormed outof the decrepit compound, determined to celebrate his birthday at somenational event. Indeed,  he had much in common with the country he waskeen to celebrate. Denial, an abdication of personal responsibilityand a firm belief in heavenly signs and wonders and demonic sabotage.With limited options for commute, he opted for the nearest bust stop.Rallying his steadily declining energy, he marched on down the road toboard a bus to the celebration square. Things rapidly fell apart fromthere.Much to his chagrin, fellow passengers sniggered and stifled laughterat his affected pomp and pageantry. He was fooling no one. The waythey saw it, you cannot prevent decline, with an even more decliningoutfit. The bus conductor was the biggest culprit. No respect for ageand grey hairs when the old man appeared to have insufficient fundsfor the fare. 59, railing at a boy young enough to be his grandson.They hadn’t even allowed him the front seat. He had hoped to gain muchgoodwill with his age. You see, to the old man, age was indeed anumber. His vain state of mind often had him demanding respect insteadof earning it via actions.Frustrated with the humiliation, he blurted out the age-old maxim ofthe defeated, “do you know who I am? Am I your mate? How dare youtreat me so shabbily? I am old enough to be your father!”The entire bus went still. Then laughter broke out in unison.The bus conductor knew the type. “ Baba park well joor! Who you be?You no see jeep enter instead of this bus?”Livid beyond measure, the old man opened his mouth and released astring of incoherent gibberish about status, greatness anddisrespectful youths of today.”For his efforts, the bus conductor retorted, “Oldman respect yourself,make I no slap you! Mumu!”“Slap me! That is all that you do, indolent and insolent youths of today!”“Ha! Me lazy?  You nko? Tell me what you have achieved?”“No mind am”, another passenger re-joined, stoking the fires ofconflict. “See you with your green-white-green agbada, what do youhave to show? Entering bus and abusing everybody!”The Oldman raging to the brim, turned to the new culprit, “In my wombis a fertile land filled with natural resources enough to cater toover two hundred million people. From oil and gas to gold, bitumen,diamond and many more, just name it and I have it. I am more than whatyou see!““This Oldman don drink ogogoro,” said more culprits as everyone on thebus started laughing at the elderly one. This was now a sport. Anotherhaggard-looking passenger who couldn’t resist a jibe called out,“crude oil ke? And you are here like this? If it is in your backyardas you was or in your belle, why haven’t you helped us stop importing?Mad man!”A visibly angry Oldman responded, “How dare you blame your lack ofcreativity and vision on me ? If you are given a wife, should you alsobe assisted with the conjugal duties? Na me go help una give ambelle?” He didn’t realise when he switched into pidgin English.“Baba you are now speaking pidgin English?”“ Yes I have to, if that will help your reasoning.”“Oya,  give us Petrol, oil and gas baba!” ?With his mouth spitting fire and brimstone, he fired back, “even if Igive you crude oil, you still won’t be able to convert it efficiently!You will still blame me. How is that my fault?”At some point in the course of his jeremiad, the bus had stoppedlaughing and taunting.“What will you call a man who imports what he has and exports what he lacks?”“Mumu”, they all cried out in unison, even the irreverent conductor.“And if that same man keeps blaming everyone else but himself, whatwill you call him”“Mumu”, they all cried again.Suddenly, the bus started jerking and threatened to halt. Theerstwhile silent driver announced that the fuel tank was empty butthere was a petrol station few metres away. He barely managed to rollthe bus into the station where both the tank and some jerrycans werefilled to the brim with petrol.  “It is for my generator at home” thedriver said to the old man who had alighted to inspect the fuellingprocess.“What a shame,” the old man muttered. Over 20billion dollars expendedon power and its subsidy since 1999 and yet…”“Baba, help us ask them,” a passenger called out, having heard the oldman’s comment.While he was still mulling over the turn his day had taken, a loudaggressive voice rang out, “park there or I shoot”.A wiry policeman was advancing towards the bus.“Who be driver? Wetin you carry?”“Human being sir,” replied the unruffled driver.“What of this jerrycan? Is it not against the law? You want to burn passengers?”The driver stayed silent. Passengers and the old man looked on.“What do you have for us?” Before the driver could respond, the old man shouted “look here, areyou not aware of the wonderful anti -corruption crusade of thisadministration? This is wrong”The policeman looked too bemused to be angry with what he consideredan ignorant interruption by an obviously senile old man. He took itupon himself to educate. “If we don’t collect money on the road, howdo we fuel our police car or sometimes even pay for our uniform?”In the course of the Officer’s lecture, the heavens opened, giving thedriver and his passengers the chance to scurry back into the bus anddrive off.The old man was exhausted and worried the rains might dampen hiscelebrations not to mention his already dampened spirit. When they raninto a traffic jam, he listened to the animated conversation in thebus rather than join in.“How can a city of 20 million people have only one means oftransportation? Why can’t there be other transport options?”He still did not join in but further retreated into his thoughts. Hehad a nagging feeling that for all his posturing and rhetoric, he hadactually been speaking to himself. He was just as culpable. Like thecountry he was keen to celebrate, he had not done much with his ownopportunities nor invested in his children. He had no diversifiedstreams of income, he was just as myopic as those he was accusing. Buthe had to celebrate no? It was his ritual. He couldn’t afford to bedispirited.As the arguments inside the bus reached dizzying heights, he cried outto the driver, “stop the vehicle , I am tired of you all, call mewhatever you like, I will celebrate. Next year I will be 60. Nextyear, maybe I will do better, I don’t know. But, for now, let mecelebrate.”Once again, he swept all his failings under the cover of superficiallamentations and went on his not so merry way.Comrade Peter Esele,  is the former President of PENGASSAN and TradeUnion Congress of Nigeria.