Lecturers at the Adeyemi College of Education in Ondo State on Monday embarked on a strike action over some unfulfilled promises by the management of the institution. The lecturers, through the Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union, had lamented the withdrawal of their allowances by the institution’s management. SaharaReportersgathered that the industrial action by the lecturers had led to the shutting down of both academic and business activities on the school’s campus. The aggrieved lecturers had on September 25, 2019, issued a seven-day warning strike to the management of the college to accede to their request or face a full-fledged strike action. Speaking with SaharaReporters, Secretary of COEASU at the college, Comrade Olaniyan Olaolu, said they decided to embark on the strike action after the institution’s management failed to meet their demands. According to him, the union had met on several occasions to make the management do the right thing but the school authorities had refused to reverse its harsh policy on their welfare. He said, “It is a full blown strike since the management has failed to meet our demands and so far. We have not seen any positive response from them.” It was gathered that members of the Non-Academic Staff Union of the college were also preparing to join the industrial action if the management failed to urgently accede to their demands. Efforts to reach Provost of the college, Dr Samuel Akintunde, were unsuccessful as his official telephone numbers were not connecting as at the time of this report. Following the strike, some students residing in the college’s hostels have begun vacating the halls in anticipation of a long strike by the lecturers. President of the institution’s Students Union Government, Comrade Adebusoye Emmanuel, told SaharaReportersthat they had met with the management over the matter and that efforts were ongoing to end the strike action. He said, “After due consultation, the management team headed by the Provost, Dr Akintunde Samuel, disclosed that there was going to be a meeting with the COEASU board members on Tuesday and if the meeting ends on a positive note, the strike will be called off. “The Governing Council of the college will also have a congress with COEASU members on Wednesday to discuss the situation and how the demands can be met without affecting academic activities. “We have already advised students to stay calm and remain on campus because positive measures were being taken to end the strike action.”