Bayo Oluwasanmi December 1776, Thomas Paine reminded Americans that “Tyranny, likehell, is not easily conquered, yet we have this consolation with us,that the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph".That was 243 years ago.In 2019 Nigeria, Thomas Paine’s declaration resonates with oppressedNigerians subjected to hellish conditions by President MuhammaduBuhari.President Buhari is a poor substitute for a leader of representativedemocracy that respects your rights. Buhari is far worse than  SanniAbacha. After all, Abacha was neither voted for nor rigged throughelection into office. He was a military dictator.The abuses, oppression, violation of human rights, violation of yourConstitution, and disrespect for rule of law, fly in the face of everydemocratic idea and ideal.Nigerians, you’re to blame.As if you’re under a divine curse, you watch helplessly as Buharireduces you to slaves dithering over meaningless trivialities. Youwatch with your hands tied behind your backs as Buhari tightens thenoose on your freedom, liberty, justice, peace, and progress.He has turned you into zombies!Could you ever believe that in 2019 Nigeria you will live in a lawlesscountry that has been aptly described with different primitiveepithets: zoo country, poverty capital of the world, a nation ofthieves and cowards, a country where nothing works, a failed state,zombie nation.The list goes on.Would you have imagined that in 2019 Nigeria, a pro-democracyadvocate, human rights crusader, publisher of the fearless andinfluential muck-raking portal, SaharaReporters, and formerpresidential candidate would be abducted in the night by agents of a“democratic government” arrested, detained on trumped-up charges ofserious crimes of treason that carries death penalty?Whereas, in the same country, deadly terrorists like Boko Haram,herdsmen terrorists, are being pacified, curdled, massaged, paid forkilling innocent people, while thieves and crooks were appointed intohigh visibility public offices. What the hell is wrong with youNigerians?Nigerians, where is your collective rage? Where is your kindled anger?Where is your seething outrage?Nigerians, it’s time to free yourselves from Buhari’s tyranny! Wake upfrom your self-induced stupor. Fight for your life, your dignity, yoursoul. Fight for your future. Fight on behalf of your children’schildren. Resist the evil president. Call off the bluff of thegap-tooth devil and his satanic agenda!You must halt the advancement of the ancient evils of a sadist indemocratic camouflage.Nigerians, you’re at war with your public enemy number one. Buhari isa sworn enemy of your nation, your people, and your civilization.Buhari is not joking. He is determined to erase you from the face ofthe earth. He sees critics and whoever disagrees with him asterrorists and placed them on government watch. You have becometargets for surveillance of your activities and correspondence.Now, it’s legal to arrest, detain, and hold you indefinitely inincommunicado without bail or trial for exercising your freedom ofspeech, assembly, association, and freedom to protest peacefully. Youhave been stripped of your rights. You have been  labelled as enemycombatants.Nigerians, the danger is real.The time is now for you to use some revolutionary outrage if you haveany left. Invoke the revolutionary spirit of your ancestors anddeclare your independence from the tyranny of Buhari’s police state.Nigerians, lest you forget, the government’s job is to protect yourinnate rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.Remember, government power comes from the will of the people. Buhari’sgovernment should not be an exception.Make no mistake about it. It is evident that the purpose of Buhari’ssecond term is to establish a tyrannical government. Buhari’sgovernment has become destructive. It is your RIGHT to alter orabolish it and institute a new government.President Buhari is sitting on a time bomb that will explode any timefrom now unless he makes a dramatic U-turn. If he likes, let himcontinue to hunt down critics. Let him continue his oppressive rule.Let him continue as an invincible emperor.Like other dictators before him, he’ll be swept away by the tide ofthe looming and inevitable #RevokutionNow!