There is anxiety in Kano and Sokoto states ahead of today’s judgmentsby the election petitions tribunals in the cases challenging theelection of Governors Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and Aminu WaziriTambuwal, respectively.Daily Trust reports that the apprehension in the two states is becauseof the complexities of the two cases, including the facts presented bycontending parties.The tribunal in Kano is expected to deliver judgment in the petitionfiled by Engineer Abba Kabir Yusuf and his party, the PeoplesDemocratic Party (PDP) challenging the declaration of Ganduje asgovernor under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC).The three-man tribunal led by Justice Halima S. Muhammad, had onSeptember 18, reserved judgment, saying it would communicate the datefor the delivery of judgement to the parties involved. In Sokoto,Ahmed Aliyu of the APC is challenging the declaration of Tambuwal ofthe PDP as governor.The Sokoto tribunal is led by Justice Abbas Bawale. Both Yusuf in Kanoand Aliyu in Sokoto had joined the Independent National ElectoralCommission (INEC) in their petitions, alleging that the electoralumpire wrongly returned Ganduje and Tambuwal as winners.While the case involving Ganduje and Yusuf would be delivered in Kano,that of Tambuwal and Aliyu was moved to Abuja because of what informedsources described as “security concerns.”In Kano, our reporters observed the presence of security personnel atstrategic places yesterday morning, but they later left the locationsin the evening. When contacted, police spokesperson DSP AbdullahiHaruna, said the state command has set all necessary securityarrangements in place to forestall any possible security breach duringand after the judgment.“Provision of security everywhere in Kano is not something new, andthis one will not be an exception. We are ready,” he said.Supporters of both PDP and APC, who spoke to Daily Trust expressedconfidence that their candidates would have the day at the tribunal. Ared cap bearer, Ibrahim Bala, told our reporter that members of thePDP, especially the Kwankwasiyya faithful, had resorted to fasting andprayers for the victory of their candidate, Yusuf.“We are fasting and praying hard for Allah to help our candidate toemerge victorious at the tribunal,” Bala said.Another PDP supporter, Abdurrazaq I. Salisu, confirmed that theirmembers had embarked on fasting and prayers.“We are praying to Almighty Allah to take Abba Kabir Yusuf to the seatof power; we all know that he won this election. We voted for him andthe people of Kano voted for him but the election was declaredinconclusive and thereafter someone else was declared winner,” hesaid. On his part, Ibrahim Chidi, an APC supporter said he wasconfident that the victory of Ganduje would be affirmed at thetribunal.“As you can see, I am energetic and confident. I have no fearwhatsoever. I am sure that since the governor was declared winner andsworn-in, nothing will change. So, we are grateful to God for theinitial victory and we are hopeful about the judgment,” he said.Another APC supporter, Inuwa Ismail Shadow said the petitioners shouldplan ahead of 2023 as he was confident that the judgment will bepassed in favour of Ganduje. But Nazifi Usman Sharif advised that thepeople should prioritize peace ahead of any other thing.“Whoever emerges victorious at the tribunal should be accepted by allin the interest of peace. We can’t afford any breakdown of law andorder,” he said.The PDP and Yusuf had in April filed a case at the tribunal on thegrounds that they were not satisfied with the outcome of thesupplementary election held on March 23, after which INEC declaredGanduje as the winner. PDP and Yusuf told the tribunal that thesupplementary election was not necessary because they won the electionat first ballot.They also alleged that the supplementary election was marred byviolence and their members were prevented from casting their votes, anallegation both APC and INEC said were baseless. The petitioners hadpresented 34 witnesses and 1,040 documents to support their claimbefore the tribunal which began hearing on the matter on May 6.On its part, INEC which was the first respondent had called threewitnesses, Ganduje who was the second respondent presented fourwitnesses, while APC which was the third respondent called only onewitness, arguing that the petitioners did not present any case thatwould warrant calling many witnesses.Both the ruling APC and the PDP in the state said they were alsooptimistic about victory in today’s judgment. PDP chairman Dr. Rabi’uSulaiman Bichi said his party was expecting nothing but fairness.“We have presented our facts to the panel and we expect nothing but justice.”His counterpart in the APC, Alhaji Abdullahi Abbas, also expressedconfidence that his party would emerge victorious.“We will win at the tribunal as we won during the election. Theevidence we tendered before the panel are enough to earn us victory.”Sokoto politicians relocate to AbujaLike in Kano, there is anxiety in Sokoto even though all thecontending parties have relocated to Abuja where the tribunal willread the verdict.Some residents yesterday said they were awaiting the outcome of thetribunal with a great deal of apprehension because they were notcertain of how the pendulum would swing. Since Monday when the newsbroke on the shift of the venue of judgment from Sokoto to Abuja, theatmosphere has been filled with apprehension especially when thechange in the location where the judgment would be delivered wasattributed to “security threat".While the PDP in the state expressed confidence in winning the case,the APC said it was hoping for a just and fair verdict. It would berecalled INEC had declared Governor Tambuwal winner of thegubernatorial polls in the state having scored 512,002 votes; whileAPC’s Aliyu got 511,660 votes.Tambuwal won by 342 votes in the final outcome of the inconclusive andsupplementary elections in the state. Not satisfied with the results,Aliyu dragged Tambuwal to the tribunal alleging irregularities and“substantial non-compliance with the laid down electoral laws andguidelines”.