Augustine Pelemo, the Special Assistant on Political Matters to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo state, has been sacked. Mr. Pelemo was relieved of his position on Monday morning, according to a statement by the government. The sack of the political aide came barely 24 hours after posting on his Facebook page a congratulatory message to wish the wife of the deputy governor, Mrs. Ajewole Agboola Ajayi, a happy birthday but referring to her as the "Acting First Lady of Ondo State".  However, the press statement signed by Donald Ojogo, the spokesman for the Ondo state government, said, "This directive is with immediate effect; and it underscores the need to instil sanity and nip in the bud, divisive acts and tendencies inimical to the existing cordiality and cohesion in the administration led by the governor. "While wishing him well in his future endeavours, Mr Governor further directs Pelemo to hand over every government property in his possession to the Deputy Chief of Staff without further delay." SaharaReporters gathered that Pelemo although attached to the office of the Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, functioned as an aide to Akeredolu. An impeccable source at the office of the deputy governor who confirmed the sacking to SaharaReporters, said the political aide acted in "stupidity" for addressing the deputy governor's wife as "Acting First Lady" of the state on the social media. "I think Pelemo just acted in a very stupid manner because in the first instance, while should he go on his social media page to address the wife of the deputy governor as an Acting First Lady of the state? "Is the governor's wife, Mrs. Betty Akeredolu, on leave? That means he is trying to create a division in the government of Akeredolu. Even considering the kind of animosities in the government with all calculations towards the 2020 elections, Pelemo should not have gone to that extent on the social media. "It is just unfortunate. He is now a sacrificial lamb despite his closeness to the governor and his deputy. Honestly, I really pitied him on this," the source said. When contacted, Pelemo refused to respond to SaharaReporters' repeated calls. Last July, Akeredolu sacked three commissioners.