In this interview with Nigerian journalists on the sidelines of theWorld Bank/International Monetary Fund annual meetings in the UnitedStates of America, the President of the African Development Bank, Dr.Akinwumi Adesina, talks about how women and youths to excel in theirenterprises. Excerpts:Can you speak on your role in the agricultural sector?In Nigeria, our work on agriculture is going to focus a lot on what wecall Special Agro-Industrial Processing Zones because as a person Ihave very little or all almost zero interest in little projects, Idon’t have such interest. I want things that are structural, systemicand scalable. So, our discussion with the government is on how we cansupport these special agro-industrial zones to enable them withinfrastructure- power, water, roads, ICT and also with irrigationfacilities.There will be zones wherein private food and allied industries orcompanies will be located close to where the farmers are. So, you willhave processing, value addition to all commodities done within thosezones; create a market for the farmers, stop the movement of rawmaterials, create jobs within rural economy and in fact, turn therural zones away from what I call today, zones of economic miserytowards zones of economic prosperity. And that conversation is goingon very well with the government and we are very strongly supportiveof that, and I hope that will continue.We are also financing other work on the fertilizer side. We aresupporting a few fertilizer companies in Nigeria. There is a new workwith its Dangote fertilizer that we are supporting, and others inNigeria.The other thing we are also going to be supporting in Nigeria is tosupport young people to get into agriculture as a business becausethis is the wealth sector. I was in Iowa where I unveiled my personalfoundation to support young people in agriculture as a business. I puttogether $1.1 million of prize money I won from the World Food Prizeand the Sunhak Peace Prize this year.I endowed the foundation to support young people to go intoagriculture as a business, and he was appreciated by everybody aroundthe world for that. So, I think that young people in agriculture needto see it as a thriving business. I’m excited that since I startedthis in Nigeria, agriculture is now cool and sexy in Nigeria, and Ithink that is the way it should be.At the annual meeting in Malabo, there were talks on connecting Africanot just on the diplomatic level but on the infrastructural level, andthey were talking about building roads that connect countries. Withthe African Investment Forum coming up, what new projects should weexpect to be tabled before investors?I think the whole issue of regional integration is very important forAfrica today within the context of the African Continental Free TradeArea (AfCFTA). The AfCFTA gives you a market of $3.3 trillion which isthe largest free trade zone in the world since the World TradeOrganisation was set up. But for that to work well, we will continueto make our investments in infrastructure to enable it.So, let me just give you some examples of those critical regionalinfrastructures. The bank is already financing ECOWAS for thedevelopment of the feasibility studies for the Lagos-Abidjan highwaythat will connect that whole corridor as a big highway, and that willgo all the way to Dakar. It’s a very transformative highway there.If you look, for example, what we have done in terms of a deep seaportin Togo, it has helped a lot in opening up the economy for Togo. Wesupported also the infrastructure for modern airports in Morocco,Ghana, Kenya, and other places just to make sure that you have accessto transport infrastructure.But, as one thinks of regional connectivity, it is not just roads, youneed digital connectivity. Therefore, the bank is investing heavily indigital infrastructure. For example, we financed what is called theTrans-Sahara Fibre Optic Network. It is linking Nigeria, Niger, Chadto Algeria.We supported the Central Africa Fibre Optic Submarine System that islinking DRC Congo with the Central African Republic and also Congoitself. Then of course in East Africa, we supported what is called theEast Africa Backbone, which is connecting all of the East Africancountries together.Why is this important? First, digital payment, because to be able todo trade, you are not going to carry cash around, you have to be ableto make digital payment. Second, is to be able to have entrepreneurs,digital entrepreneurs to emerge. This is because in a digital worldyou want to have digital entrepreneurs but they must have the backboneinfrastructure for the service industry like Jumia and others toemerge.The last thing, of course, is that even if we have all of that,infrastructure to connect coastal countries, landlocked countries,they will not be as good enough unless people can physically move. So,you can have tariff-free zones but you must also have literallyborderless Africa in terms of labour mobility. And so the bank issupporting a lot of work in that area.Today, if you are an African, you can visit only 25 percent of Africancountries and get visas on arrival. For another 24 percent of it youwill have to apply and you cannot even get it on arrival. And so iflabour cannot move easily, it becomes a challenge. So it’s bothphysical infrastructure and soft infrastructure.Talking about free movement, Nigeria has closed its land borders toneighbouring countries since August. What do you have to say to that?The fact is I believe this is one area the two countries have to worktogether and make sure that they are in agreement about what needs tobe done to ensure there is a freer movement of goods and people. Fromall I see, those conversations are ongoing.What is the bank doing about human capital development and health, twoareas the continent is facing huge challenges?Let us take the case of human capital. First and foremost, we areinvesting today in universities of science and technology, centres ofexcellence in science and technology. We have one in Nigeria, we haveone in Kenya, we have in Tanzania, we have one in Egypt and then inSouth Africa. These are called Mandela Centres of Excellence,basically to develop world-class talents in science and technology.We are in an era where it is all about the fourth industrialrevolution. So, automation is going to be important, artificialintelligence, robotics, big data, quantum data analysis. These are thethings that are already driving the world, and they would be thefuture of the world. So, Africa must prepare people, use your ownpeople for the jobs of the future, not the jobs of the past. And sowhen we take a look at universities, what do we find? We find that nomore than two to three percent of universities have people that are inscience, technology, engineering, and mathematics. I don’t want Africato be a laggard when it comes to innovation in a rapidly digitizedworld or the fourth industrial revolution.So, that is one component of science and technology. Let me give anexample of what that looks like: we invested, for example, in Kigali.It’s called the Kigali Institute of Science and Technology. Thatcentre today is producing world-class students in ICT. One hundredpercent of all the students get jobs before they leave. They areconnected with some of the biggest companies in the world, whether itis Google, Microsoft and all of that. This just tells you that this iswhere the future really is and we are financing that.The other area that I think is important is coding, computer coding.It is going to be the currency of the future. So, a lot of companiesoutside are going to outsource their coding, and therefore positioningyourself with the necessary human capital to be able to tap into thathuge coding market is very important. The bank right now is supportingefforts to develop about 123 computer coding centres in Africa thatwould allow young Africans to be able to benefit from there.Another area that is very important for us is the whole issue of howto support young entrepreneurs in the ICT space with access tofinance. So, the bank has a number of private equity funds that wehave already set up. In the case of Nigeria, one of the companies weare working with is called TLcom Tide. It is a private equity platformthat we have, that is actually run by Nigeria’s Omobola Johnson, whois doing a fantastic job. She was my colleague when I was a ministerin Nigeria. So, I think human capital is the key.But having said that, we can build all the human capital that we want,if young people can’t find jobs, it’s a crisis. We’ve got a third ofthe young people in the continent don’t have jobs, we’ve got a thirdof them that are underemployed. The rest that are probably employedand maybe not happy. So, that is a big challenge, and I believe thatit is time to begin to put our capital at risk on behalf of youngpeople. If we don’t, we are all going to be at risk.That why the African Development Bank is really supporting a majoreffort called Jobs for Youths in Africa, which is our big programme tohelp countries to create 25 million jobs for young people over a10-year period, in agriculture, small and medium enterprises and inthe ICT sector. You can imagine when you have 673 million young peopleon the continent, but you don’t even have the financial institutionsthat would support them.That is not acceptable. So, young people walks into a bank, they looklost, they are like in a forest. They don’t even know what to do, andthe instruments are not developed for them. I have said it many timesand I will say it again.I don’t believe in youth empowerment, at all, because when you say youhave empowered somebody and then you train them but there is nofinancing, investments for them to grow their businesses, what is thegood of that? So, we must move from youth empowerment to youthinvestment.