In this interview with Nigerian journalists on the sidelines of theWorld Bank/International Monetary Fund annual meetings in the UnitedStates of America, the President of the African Development Bank, Dr.Akinwumi Adesina, talks about how women and youths to excel in theirenterprises. Excerpts:How will Jobs for Youths in Africa programme work and will it createthe ambitious 25 million jobs?As ambitious as it is, the 25 million jobs are not enough because 11to 12 million young people enter the labour market every year, butonly three million of them can get jobs. So, we are only doing themaximum we can. Even at that, it is not enough. We are doing that inthree ways: first is within our project as a bank, we do roughly over10 billion dollars of lending every year. We set up all of ourprojects, we want them to be mainstreamed to create jobs for youngpeople, and women, by the way. In the case of women, we have somethingthat we call a Gender Marker System where every single one of ourprojects is tagged. What is it going to deliver for women? That is oneside. So, a lot of our projects are dedicated to making sure that theydo that. 



See Also






Interview
I Don’t Believe In Youth Empowerment (PART I) – Adesina
2 Comments
36 Minutes Ago





Second, we set up a fund together with the European Union Commissionthat is called Boost Africa. It is a 200 million dollar fund; aprivate equity fund to support early stage growth of businesses ofyoung people on the continent. I just talked to you about the TLcomTide Fund in Nigeria that is supposed to support digital entrepreneursas well in Nigeria. But with all of these, at the end of the day,there needs to be a more systemic approach in which the financingsector supports the youth. That is why I believe that helping tostimulate, and we are going to do that, stimulate the establishment ofthe Youth Entrepreneurship and Investment Bank. It is crucial,otherwise, we are just dancing around the edges of the issue.But because you asked me that question, let me turn in to the issue ofwomen which I said before you cut in. Women run Africa, but they don’tget access to finance. I was so delighted that President Macron did agreat job of really helping us to launch this during the G7 meeting inBiarritz. It is $3 billion dollars specifically for women businesses,and one thing that we are also doing is that we are establishing whatis called the Women Financing Index for Africa, that will allow us torate and rank all financial institutions based on their volume oflending to women, in terms of their lending volume and thedevelopmental impact of their lending. 



See Also






Interview
I Don’t Believe In Youth Empowerment (PART II) – Adesina
1 Comment
29 Minutes Ago





What does that mean? It means that if you come to us soon, we aregoing to ask the banks: what have you done for women lately? We’d belooking at lines of credit; we’d be looking at trade financing. Wewant you to be lending more to women because no bird can fly with onewing. Africa has to fly with two.Are you worried that IMF projected growth for Africa for 2020 at 3.5percent? If you are, are there strategic measures AfDB is taking toaddress that?Well, our own projection for this year for the growth of Africa isfour percent. Next year, we project 4.1 percent. But, of course, youknow that we are in an environment in which we have a number of globalshocks, headwind issues. You have the Brexit issue and you have thecontinued trade tensions between China and the United States. Ofcourse, it could and is already affecting opportunities for exportmarkets for African countries. So, a number of issues that we want toreally do to support countries is first and foremost, to make surethat we stimulate domestic demand. The way to grow is to make surethat Africa builds its own domestic demand. Second is publicexpenditure for infrastructure because infrastructure enables growth,and growth drives a lot of jobs and a lot of revenues. I think that’sparticularly important. Thirdly is the importance of regionalintegration. Expanding that regional market is very important.But I will make two other points related to that, which is how tomobilize capital for Africa’s accelerated growth. Africa today has inits pension funds, in its sovereign wealth funds, and insurance poolof funds, mutual funds, $1.8 trillion of assets under management.Those sovereign wealth funds, those pension funds are being investedoutside of Africa in money market instruments that are generating anegative real yield of returns.Now, that’s my concern. If you are a pension fund and you areinvesting your money outside the continent and in such a negative realyield of return, let’s even assume you have a good real yield ofreturns and you make annuity payments for people for the rest of theirretired lives of what good is that? If they retire with very goodannuity payments to live in societies, places without electricity,without water, without good hospitals; that is a well-paid miserableretirement. So, what we are working on at the African Development Bankis how we get the pension funds, the sovereign wealth funds toactually invest in Africa. Africa sovereign funds, I mean invested inother sovereigns, it should be invested in its own to create a betterwealth, better environment and quality of life for its people. For me,that is very important.The second thing is, in terms of stimulating growth is the role ofcapital markets. The African Development Bank is supporting stronglythe development of capital markets to be able to mobilize domesticsavings and to drive investments in the economy. The last thing that Imay say is that when we talk about growth, nobody eats GDP. It’s justsimply Gross Domestic Products, it’s just the value of goods andservices produced in an economy.But how you know that you are doing well is when you look at thequality of life of the people. So, the question that we continue toask is growth at what cost? What kind of growth? What is the inequityin that growth process? Who are the ones that are benefitting fromthat growth process? So, at the end of the day, I am not just worriedabout the growth rate, you can grow at five percent, you can grow atsix percent, but if you look at Africa today, for this year, weproject four percent growth.That doesn’t tell you the story. Look at Tanzania, 7.2 percent;Senegal, 6.7 percent, Cote d'Ivoire, 6.5 percent. There are economiesactually growing faster than the global average of 3.3 percent. Take alook at Africa’s growth and look at the rate of growth in Europe, 5.4percent; Latin America, 1.3 percent. So, Africa is actually doingwell. Today, 20 African countries are growing at five percent andabove. Twenty-one countries growing at three to five percent. So, I amvery optimistic about Africa. I think we just need to drive a lot moreinvestments into the continent.