Bayo Oluwasanmi Here we go again!Omoyele Sowore the symbol of our struggle against the tyranny of theminority goes to court today to challenge his illegal, unjust, andunconstitutional continued detention. Justice Taiwo Taiwo a few weeksago granted Sowore bail, but Emperor Buhari disobeyed the court andrefused to let Sowore regain his freedom.Law is the fundamental base on which civilizations are based. Perhaps,the most defining characteristic of democracy is the rule of law.Through the allegedly rigged election, Muhammadu Buhari (now turnedemperor) became president. But the rule of law in a democracy definesthe rule of engagement and relationship between Buhari and Nigerians.Buhari’s highest education level is elementary school certificate. Itis, therefore, understandable if he doesn’t know the meaning of therule of law. But it is tragically troubling when his army of highlyeducated advisers have no clue what rule of law means.So, what is the rule of law? Rule of law means that laws apply equallyto everyone in a democracy - the rich and the poor, the powerful andthe common citizens. The Constitution of the country sets out the ruleof law.In 1215, the rule of law was first codified in the Western Europeangovernment in the Magna Carta. English nobles had demanded that KingJohn’s powers to arbitrarily arrest or imprison them be curtailed.Thus, the charter states that even the king had to follow the law:“No free man shall be taken,imprisoned, disseized, outlawed,or banished, or in any way destroyed,nor will he proceed against him,except by the lawful judgment ofhis peers and the Law of the Land.”The four core principles of the rule of law, as defined by the WorldJustice Project, which measures respect for rule of law in countriesaround the world are:1. The government and its officials and agents, as well as individualsand private entities, are accountable under the law.2. The laws are clear, publicized, stable and just; are appliedevenly; and protect fundamental rights, including the security ofpersons and property and certain core human rights.3. The process by which the laws are enacted, administered, andenforced is accessible, fair, and efficient.4. Justice is delivered timely by competent, ethical, and independentrepresentatives and neutrals who are of sufficient number, haveadequate resources and reflect the make-up of the communities theyserve.Buhari as a tyrant disobeys court decisions at will. It is necessaryto remind him that when he starts disobeying the court’s decisions, heis challenging the legal system. I cannot emphasize it enough that hemay not like Sowore. He may hate his political philosophy. He maydislike his advocacy for good governance. He may detest theconstituency of the poor majority Sowore represents. He may not likehis tribe. He can disagree with a court decision that granted Soworebail. He may openly criticize it. But, he must comply with a courtdecision. It’s not about Sowore. It’s about the rule of law!Buhari’s disrespecting the law means by complying with the order ofJustice Taiwo Taiwo Court, Buhari ought to know he is not obeying thewishes of the judge, rather he is respecting the very office the judgeis holding which is an intricate part of the legal machinery. Thatlegal machinery is what the rule of law is all about. Without that,the rule of law cannot subsist.By disregarding the law, Buhari is directly inviting anarchy. Anyonewho can force others to his will gets his way. Without laws there isnothing to protect us from tyrants like Buhari. A law is a rule thatis binding, enforceable, and one can be punished for not obeying.Honorable Justice Ijeoma Lucia Ojukwu should summon courage in theface of intimidation, coercion, threat, and interpret the Constitutionwithout fear or favor and free Sowore.“And who knows but that you have come to your royal position for sucha time as this?”