 One of Abuja's top developers, T Pumpy Concept Ltd, owners of T Pumpy Estate, has launched a new campaign tagged 'Abuja for All'. The 'Abuja for All' campaign is aimed at making lands affordable and accessible to all Nigerians, who wish to own a property in the nation's capital irrespective of class or status. This was made known by Mr. Adaralegbe Akintayo, MD/CEO of Concept Ltd at the redemption of the star prize of the their just concluded 'Connect or Buy and Win' promo. Speaking during the star-studded event, Akintayo said the promo, which kicked off on October 1, would end on December 31, 2019.  The promo, he said, would afford interested subscribers opportunity to move to site after making 50 per cent down payment and can spread the balance in six months by installments. The promo comes in three different categories of platinum, gold and silver. According to him, "The silver package, which goes for N1.7m and 400SQm, allows owners to build 4/5 bedroom duplex, 4 bedroom penthouse and three bedroom bungalow. "Gold, which is 5000SQM and goes for N2m, equally allows owners to build 4/5 bedroom duplex, 4 bedroom penthouse and three bedroom bungalow.  "The platinum package, which is 600SQM at the rate of N2.3m, also allows owners to build 4/5 bedroom duplex, 4 bedroom penthouse and three bedroom bungalow. "Note that all packages come with outright payment or six months payment plan." The highpoint of the event was the presentation of the Honda CrossTour to the winner of the 'Connect or Buy and win promo' , Mrs Margaret Oki, a nurse. Presenting the key to the winner, Akintayo said Oki emerged winner as a top subscriber of the estate land and for also recommending so many subscribers.  Speaking shortly after receiving her star prize, a visibly elated Oki said after discovering the genuineness and the legality of the estate land, she recommended numerous buyers, including her father and mother as well as siblings. She enjoined other Nigerians to key into the T Pumpy Estate land as "it is truly genuine and here to stay". On ground to thrill guests at the event were Fuji musician, Sulaimon Alao Adekunle popularly known as Ks1 Malaika, Femi Adebayo, Asiri and Tayo Odueke widely known as Sikiratu Sindodo, who are also brand ambassadors.   The event was anchored by Abuja-based master of ceremony and comedian, Enenche Enenche. The T Pumpy Concept team boast of decades of providing industry-acclaimed off-site home design and construction. Whether you’re interested in a manufactured home or an innovative modular design, the T Pumpy Concept team continues to deliver what home buyers are looking for in their new homes along with the quality construction they expect and deserve.   Office address: House 23, (F) Road, Beside RCCG Resurrection Parish, FHA Lugbe, Abuja.Follow us on our social media platforms.Insagram: T.pumpy_estatesFacebook: Tpumpy EstatesYouTube : T.pumpy EstatesWebsite: http://tpumpyconcept.comWhatsApp/call: 09054545468 or 09023333380