The University of Lagos has begun an internal investigation of Dr. Boniface Igbeneghu and Dr. Samuel Oladipo over allegations of sexually harassing female students and potential ones in the school. The two lecturers were caught on tape in a documentary released by the BBC Africa Eye on Monday exposing how lecturers requested sexual favours from students in exchange for marks or other academic opportunities. The panel constituted by the university would be headed by Dean Faculty of Law, Ayodele Atsenuwa, said a statement released by Mrs. Taiwo Oloyede, Principal Assistant Registrar (Communication Unit). The statement said: “The University of Lagos management has set up a panel headed by Prof. Ayodele V. Atsenuwa, a professor of Public Law, Faculty of Law, University of Lagos and the incumbent Dean of the Faculty. “The panel will probe into the allegations of sexual harassment levelled against Dr. Boniface Igbeneghu of the Department of European Languages and Integrated Studies, Faculty of Arts and Dr. Samuel Oladipo of the Department of Economics, Faculty of Social Sciences as well as other related cases. “As previously announced in the university’s press release dated Monday, October 7, 2019, Dr. Samuel Oladipo who was featured in the full version of the BBC broadcast has been suspended from work with immediate effect and barred from the university's academic areas until the conclusion of the panel’s assignment.” The statement also noted that a pending investigation against another unnamed lecturer was ongoing, urging students with information to come forward. “The university wishes to inform the general public that the panel set up to investigate another allegation of sexual harassment involving a professor in the university in June 2018 still subsists and awaits further information that will aid in concluding the investigation. “Students and members of staff who have relevant information are encouraged to come forward. Their protection is assured. “We firmly reassure all our students, staff, alumni, parents and guardians that this matter will be tackled with every sense of responsibility, and the seriousness it deserves. “The whole process will be transparent and appropriate sanctions will be meted out to anyone found culpable,” it added.