The recent BBC documentary detailing a slew of sex-for-grades storiesemanating from universities in Nigeria and Ghana has brought to thefore, once again, the lingering and pervasive sexual harassment issuein our society.It understandably ignited a frenzied condemnation across the countryprompting the senate to introduce a bill that aims to prevent thesexual harassment of university students.If the bill were to become law, it would be illegal for lecturers tomake any sexual advances towards students. Under the proposed lawalso, teaching staff could face up to 14 years in jail for havingsexual relationships with their students. While this is commendable,it is not enough to stop this dastard act.The footage from the documentary was indeed chilling and bloodboiling, to say the least. It was infuriating and disgusting to seeuniversity professors sexually harassing and blackmailing theirstudents. It was extremely hard to watch but quite necessary in orderto confront this beastly and absolutely enraging reality that youngand desperate students are facing in our Universities.At one point in the footage, you could hear a student saying: "Thisthing has been going on for years. And every single year, every singledepartment, every single student, there’s always a story!"If this isn’t absolutely disturbing, nothing else will be.Sexual harassment is a type of harassment technique that relates to asexual nature and the unwelcome or inappropriate promise of rewards inexchange for sexual favors. Sexual harassment includes a range ofactions from mild transgressions to sexual abuse or assault.Harassment can occur in many different social settings such as theworkplace, in the home, schools, religious institutions, etc. Mostimportant, however, harassers or victims may be of any gender.While the information that this documentary reveals is upsetting andshocking, to be frank, the BBC Africa Eye Sex For Grades documentaryis not an uncommon practice across every stratum of our society. Onewould be naïve or even mendacious to say that they were not aware thatit happens, especially when the abuse breaches the relationship of aFiduciary nature.Many of us are aware, have heard or suspected that it happens on aregular basis in these relationships, particularly when the victim islooking for some favor or outcome from the abuser. When the victim isdesperate for the person in the position of the abuser to impart themwith some sort of result.It really is a sad situation, but even sadder that few people ororganizations, including human rights groups, have provided consistentcounseling and safe havens for victims and clamoring for stringentpunitive measures against the perpetrators. Due to the lack ofstringent measures, the practice of sexual abuse and harassment hascontinued abated. This is so, particularly in educational institutionsacross the country.From the BBC documentary, the ordeal that some students face in thehands of some constipated, salacious, depraved and irresponsiblelecturers that have a misplaced and engorged appetite for carnalfavors is an almost daily story. It just is not acceptable. And itshould not be allowed.Eerily, the documentary is the first time a well documented visualevidence will be presented to the public domain of perverted lecturerspreying on, mainly, helpless female students. One probably has socialmedia and technology to thank for this feat.There, indeed, have been a couple of amateur videos of lecturerssubjecting their students to this inhuman treatment, but none has beenable to garner such rage, outpour, and disgust compared to thissting-like operation’s visual documentary that has humanized thepredators, bringing them close to home.While the male gender can also be victims of assault, the truth isthat the vast majority of sexual assault victims in our society arefemale. In addressing this matter, one has to wonder why the practiceof rape, sexual assault, and harassment has continued, unabated,across every stratum in our society.Perhaps, despite the achievements of women in our society, there isstill an entitled mentality in the form of the sense of superioritythat the average Nigerian male acquires while growing up. More oftenthan not, parents bring up their male kids in a way that they begin tobelieve they are the superior gender to their sisters and any othergirl around them.The boys who grow up and emerge as brutes invariably acquire a falsesense of importance and a compelling inability to delay gratification.However, this is a discussion for another day.Society itself needs to deliberately give proper orientation to everychild and inculcate the equality of the sexes in every child,irrespective of gender. There is also the need to break the culture ofsilence borne out of stigmatization.The more people speak out about this evil and call out itsperpetrators, the more we will liberate Nigeria’s youth from bondageand assure the country’s future. This will also activate the legal andjudicial system, which is not just largely untested but also is longoverdue for an overhaul.Prevention of sexual assault will remain a mirage until we put inplace institutional frameworks to deal comprehensively with actualcases of sexual assault. This approach should involve functional,skilled, and synchronized services and also include the criminaljustice system, the police, social services, and sexual assaultservices.Encouraging victims and survivors of sexual assault to break theirsilence by making available such services, which should becommunity-based, and the successful prosecution of perpetrators, willserve as a deterrent and hopefully prevent the next person fromfalling victim.Public enlightenment can also be a critical tool in changing behavior,attitude, beliefs and the value system of people. Therefore thereshould be intense public enlightenment and education at schools,religious institutions, and social gatherings demystifying the mythsabout sexual assault.Very important, the media has a vital role to play, because it is inthe background unconsciously influencing people’s thoughts with itsconstant subliminal messages. The false assumptions about sexualassault that are seen as being true can be dispelled through themedia, in schools, in our religious institutions, and in our socialgatherings. Even new media, with forwards on WhatsApp and other toolsand play a vital role.As for the lecturer involved and caught in the sex for gradesdocumentary, suspending him just isn’t enough. Severe punitive actionhas to be taken in light of the evidence against him in the publicdomain. The authorities need to ensure that this particular predatoris made an example of in order to serve as a deterrent to futurewould-be predators.Nigerian lawmakers need to sit up and tighten the sexual assault andrape laws. There have been talks about this for several years but theyneed to take, debate and amend it seriously. The law enforcers musttake action against anyone reported to have committed rape and sexualassault and instituted a suit against them in court.Teachers and religious and community leaders need to start theconversation earnestly. The government must take action now. We cannotturn our eyes away anymore. We cannot pretend that it is nothappening.Sexual assault and rape are happening in our society every single day.It is time for every moral, responsible and peace-loving person tospeak up and speak out on behalf of those who need us to stand withthem and not silence them.The culture of silence should be silenced… for it has endured long enough.Hannatu MusawaI invite you to follow me on Twitter:@hanneymusawa