Olorunfemi Adeyeye Not quite long from now did Twittersphere got lit due to aconstellation of fiery tweets and retweets of comments emanating fromChief Dele Momodu’s tweet; one that berated youths, whom he claimedhave ‘abandoned’ Sowore to only talk cheap on the Internet. Hementioned in the tweet how the youths are not ‘putting theirresources’ together to secure his release and fight for power.Inasmuch as one would agree that there is a level of docility in thesociety and it is particularly among the young people, who actuallyconstitute the largest percentage of the demography, one can nottotally rub on their faces the failings of the society, especiallywhen such is coming from a man who lacks the moral authority andtemerity to do the rubbing.Chief Dele Momodu as a former presidential candidate lacks principles.Bob Marley had him in mind when he said in his famous quote that "somepeople are so poor that all they have is money".This is a man who is putting his resources together, including hisliterary prowess, to support someone infamously considered a drugbaron, certificate forger, bullion van mover to fulfill what he called"a day with destiny" in 2023.In his article that went viral over the weekend, he highlighted howTinubu would make a good president. They have come again! The “Na dem”association.He and others have started the image laundering project of Tinubu justthe same way that Buhari's was done. Whose fault is it at the end ofthe day that those who should have had their "day in prison" aredreaming of having a "day with destiny". Social disorder!These men who keep insulting young people who appear helpless todayknow deep down in their hearts how bad the product they are sellingis. Yet because of favours, money, and positions, they go ahead tomarket it; capitalizing on the mass illiteracy and mass benightednessin our society.All caused by the ruling political class.They would later turn around as “public intellectuals” to tell the"youths" to fight the 'bad market’ they sold. They would rub on ourfaces our collective docility.To be clear. You tell people who are struggling to eat two decentmeals per day to fight for their rights. How? This is possible butdifficult."Humans" (a term used to describe people who have settled, in thehierarchy of needs, their basic physiological needs- food, shelter,and clothing) are the ones who can demand human rights.Are the majority of Nigerians humans yet?This would never excuse the docile young people in my generationneither was it intended to make a case for inactiveness. It is rathera class consciousness piece - for Nigerians to know their enemies intheir crudeness. For them to know that their enemies are organized inall strata of society. For them to know that only a revolution is theway out and this can only be achieved by organizing too.For them to know that instead of invading ShopRite, as a reprisal onSouth Africans- during the Xenophobia saga- as much as such action iscondemned, Bourdillon isn’t far.Men like Chief Dele are the ‘elders’ in the society they instruct usto respect. Those who don’t care about us but their bellies.Twenty-two weeks ago, as seen on his Instagram page, he was testingwaters with Sowore; looking out for opinions as per support for himtowards 2023.Today, he has his hands in the air and butt swinging like a pendulumfor Tinubu. People like him belong to an association called AGIP- AnyGovernment in Power. No principles. No ideology. Just to eat!Unknowing to them, the young people are becoming conscious and haverejected this style and it is game up for these paid influencers whouse their followership to swindle Nigerians and misuse their roles inthe society. Their misused role in society can be likened to ascenario of a blind man entrusting his finances to the hands of a manwho turns out to be a reincarnation of Anini. Just the same way aformer attorney general of our country helped some internationalswindlers to steal from Nigeria by exposing the loopholes in our lawsto them.It is a crime against humanity.Men like Dele Momodu shouldn’t have been allowed to inhabit this spaceby natural occurrence. It’s rather unfortunate that we have them.No wonder Davido called him his boy.Have you forgotten that part of the lyrics, “Mr. Dele na my boy. Delena my boy”?Davido knew what he was saying after all.