President Muhammadu Buhari has claimed that normalcy has returned toall Boko Haram-ravaged areas in Nigeria.He stated this on Wednesday while launching the 2020 Armed ForcesRemembrance Day Emblem and 'Appeal Fund' in Abuja.Buhari claimed: "The nation is appreciative of the gallantry andsacrifices of officers and men of our armed forces in the campaignagainst insurgency and other internal security operations. This hasled to the return of normalcy in affected parts of the nation."The Boko Haram terrorists have been substantially defeated anddegraded to the extent that they are only daring soft targets.Full Text Of President Buhari's Remarks:REMARKS BY HIS EXCELLENCY, MUHAMMADU BUHARI, PRESIDENT ANDCOMMANDER-IN-CHIEF OF THE ARMED FORCES, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA,ON OCCASION OF LAUNCHING 2020 ARMED FORCES REMEMBRANCE DAY EMBLEM ANDAPPEAL FUND WEDNESDAY, 16TH OCTOBER, 2019PROTOCOLI heartily welcome you all to the formal launch of the 2020 ArmedForces Remembrance Day Celebration Emblem and Appeal Fund. Today, weare once again gathered to acknowledge and commend the sacrifices ofour fallen heroes and veterans of First and Second World Wars,Nigerian Civil War and Peace Support Operations around the world.2. We must not forget those currently engaged in Internal SecurityOperations, particularly the on-going war against insurgency in someparts of the country. It is indeed befitting to honour the memory ofthe gallant officers and men who paid the supreme sacrifice to keepthe country united. For those who survived with varying degrees ofincapacitation, they require our attention and care and we willcontinue to provide and cater for them.3. The Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration was intentionallyfixed for 15th of January, annually, to commemorate the end of ourcivil war. It reminds us of the need to guard jealously the unity ofour country which was won at a great cost.4. This day calls to mind the negative impact of strife and conflictsand demands that as responsible citizens, we must at all times avoidactions that emphasize our differences. There is no doubt that thestrength of Nigeria lies in her diversity. It behoves us therefore, toengage in activities and endeavours that feed our diversity as asource of strength not weakness.5. The nation is appreciative of the gallantry and sacrifices ofOfficers and Men of our Armed Forces in the campaign againstinsurgency and other Internal Security Operations. This has led to thereturn of normalcy in affected parts of the nation. The Boko Haramterrorists have been substantially defeated and degraded to the extentthat they are only daring soft targets.6. However, all hands must be on deck to check the attacks on softtargets, mostly innocent Nigerians. The peace and security of Nigeriais non-negotiable and the security agencies must continue to do theirwork diligently. As a government, we will continue to providenecessary logistical support to ensure that our Armed Forces operatewith the best modern warfare equipment, while at the same timeadequately addressing the issues of their welfare.7. Likewise, government will remain steadfast in developing ouralliances with neighbours and friends in the international communityfor the total defeat of the insurgents. The task of resettling andrehabilitating our citizens as well as the reconstruction ofterritories affected by the war will continue to be one of thepriorities of this Administration.8. We shall not rest until all our displaced persons are safelyresettled into their communities without fear of further attacks. Itis for this reason that the North East Development Commission andFederal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management andSocial Development were established. The Executive Arm of Governmenthereby commends the National Assembly for the passage of the Billestablishing the Commission.9. It is our hope that with prudent management of limited resourcesand support from well-meaning Nigerians and Corporate bodies, theCommission working in close collaboration with the Ministry andfriends abroad will be able to deliver on their mandate.10. We are aware that it is the business of Government to provide theenabling environment for businesses to thrive. We will not fail toprovide our citizens with an atmosphere that is devoid of securitythreats and criminality, where life is stable and progress is certain.11. Government is also well aware that an insecure environment stiflesbusinesses and undermines growth and prosperity. For this reason, wewill like to commend and reinforce our gratitude to our men and womenin the Armed Forces who have risen to the challenge of securing ournation and providing enabling environment for national progress.12. It is on this note that we acknowledge and commend the risingtrend, where business concerns offer discounted services to our menand women in the Armed Forces in appreciation of their selflesssacrifices to the fatherland. We commend these laudable initiativesand urge more of our business concerns to do likewise. Such gestureswould no doubt encourage them in defence of our country and itspeople.13. The unfortunate cost of the war against insurgency and otherInternal Security Operations, is the loss of lives of some of ourofficers and men in the Armed Forces. These very sad occurrencescreate deep wounds to loved ones. It is, therefore, our duty to ensurethat the loss of these bread winners does not relegate the spouses anddependents to a life of want and deprivation. Government will do allin its powers to look after the bereaved.14. Service leaders must take urgent steps to settle the entitlementsof these affected citizens as well as the welfare packages designedfor their dependants. It is the responsibility of government to ensurethat the families of our fallen heroes do not suffer the loss of theirloved ones and at the same time be deprived of their due benefits.15. To ensure that our veterans continue to share the comradeship thatexisted while in Service and adequately cater for their welfare atexit, the Federal Government established the Nigerian Legion. It isdelightful to note that the Legion is carrying out initiatives intransportation, agriculture, housing and other ventures in partnershipwith the private sector.16. I am happy to note that the Legion has continued to be a rallyingpoint of veterans and has done its part in catering for the welfare oftheir ailing members. I enjoin the leadership of the Legion tocontinue in this spirit. I also urge Nigerians to accord them theneeded support, friendship and patronage.17. As the Grand Patron of the Nigerian Legion, I wish to pledge mycontinued support and that of the Federal Government to theorganisation. My appreciation goes to the State Governors who arepatrons in their respective States for the support they are providingto the Legion.18. Government agencies at the Federal and State levels shouldcontinue to patronise services of Nigerian Legion Corps ofCommissionaires in the provision of security services. The potentialsof our ex-servicemen are enormous and the economy can tap into thisfor national development.19. As I launch the emblem shortly, I wish to call on all Nigeriansand others resident in Nigeria to procure and wear the emblems withpride to identify with those who laid down their lives for the peaceand security of our fatherland. I encourage all to donate generouslyin support of our veterans and dependants of fallen heroes.20. Esteemed veterans, ladies and gentlemen, it is now my honour andprivilege to launch the 2020 Armed Forces Remembrance Day CelebrationEmblem and Appeal Fund.Thank you and God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria.