Students of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Ogun State, were on Thursday night robbed for the third in seven days by a group of suspected armed robbers. According to findings by SaharaReporters, armed gangs had invaded the school very often in recent times, making life difficult for many of the students of the institution. Many of the undergraduates, who spoke with our correspondent, said they were forced to sign indemnity forms by the institution’s management to prevent them from protesting the situation. One student, who asked not to be named, said, “Please my anonymity is important to me because I signed an indemnity affidavit and I'm in my final year, I don’t want to be rusticated. “On Thursday night, Oasis Hostel was attacked by armed robbers, making it the third time in seven days that students would be attacked in their hostels. This has really become worrisome. “Despite the fact that there is a police station around the place, armed robbers have continued to terrorise us. We are calling on government to help us because we now live in fear.” Another student, who also asked not to be named for fear of being punished by the management of the institution, revealed that the robbers that struck on Thursday night went away with five iPhone 11, six necklaces and four generator sets. According to the 300 level student, a lot of undergraduates were already leaving their hostels for safer areas in Abeokuta, the state capital, for fear of armed robbers. Spokesperson for the institution could not be reached for comments as of the time of this report. Armed robbers attacking students’ hostels has now become a disturbing trend in most parts of the country. On August 11, 2019, robbers attacked a female hall of residence at the University of Ibadan, Oyo State. They stole mobile phones, laptop computers and other valuables belonging to students. It was the third time within that month that armed men would be attacking students' hostel in UI after Obafemi Awolowo Hall twice 'hosted' the hoodlums.