Bayo Oluwasanmi The primary reason for a government is to serve as a protector,protecting citizens from violence, and properties from destruction.It’s a provider of goods and services that individuals cannot providefor a well-functioning society. Government is the solution tocollective action problems.The greatest 'terrorist' in Nigeria today is behind the mask in AsoRock. His name is Muhammadu Buhari.  He is also the President ofNigeria. Buhari is a Fulani and a Sunni Muslim born by Fulani parentsfrom Daura, Katsina State. Buhari belongs to the sect of Islam calledSunni Islam. Buhari is a herdsman. He owns cows. He employs and paysFulani herdsmen to cater for the cows.“The President is a herdsman, a Fulani man. He owns cows,” says OthmanNgelzarma, secretary of Myetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association ofNigeria.Buhari as a 'terrorist' is no different from members of well-knownterrorist groups like the Taliban, Al-Qaeda, and Boko Haram. Why?A few examples will suffice. As a terrorist, Buhari doesn’t govern bythe rule of law. He doesn’t respect the rule of law. He flouts courtrulings at will. He is alien to the rule of law. As a 'terrorist', heis determined to eliminate, suppress, imprison, torture, and take outof circulation his critics, opponents, and other dissidents whodisagree with his oppressive rule.Buhari as a 'terrorist' is in control of all three branches ofgovernment: executive, judiciary, and legislature. As a terrorist, heis naturally wicked, insensitive, distant and aloof to the sufferingand plight of Nigerians. As a 'terrorist', he enjoys and indeed feelsaccomplished and fulfilled by tormenting, harassing, oppressing,intimidating, and framing up critics of his tyrannical regime withbaseless, unfounded, and manufactured crimes he cannot prove in thecourt of law.Nigeria under Buhari is a country of unrelenting insecurity without agovernment to provide the safety of law and order, protectingNigerians from each other. Buhari as a 'terrorist', fuels the horrorsof chaos and disorder embedded in his domestic terrorism agenda.In the history of Nigeria, we have never witnessed large scalekillings by Fulani herdsmen until Buhari became president. Buhari as aSunni Muslim provides the cover, the shield, the fund, the support,the defense and of course the legitimacy for Fulani herdsmen. Asreported by Vanguard, Fulani herdsmen killed more people in 2015,2016, and 2017, than even Boko Haram.To be in total control of Nigeria, all the security chiefs appointedby Buhari are Fulani Sunni Muslims: the attorney general of thefederation, chief justice of the federation, inspector general ofpolice, chief of army staff, DSS director general, EFCC chairmen ofEFCC, ICPC, INEC, directors of prisons, customs, aviation, railway,and all other federal agencies.How can Fulani Sunni Muslim security chiefs fight kinsmen Fulaniherdsmen and Boko Haram?Buhari's silence on the relative ease, the impunity by which theFulani herdsmen repeatedly attacked vulnerable communities across thenation and their non-arrest and prosecution is evident that Buhari isdoing their bidding.Responding to attacks by Fulani herdsmen, Buhari said: “The presentherder, I am told, carries AK 47 and people are even blaming me fornot talking to them because maybe (they say) I look like one of them.There is more injustice in this aspersion...The Benue subsistencefarmer knows that the Nigerian cattle herder that he knows doesn'tcarry nothing more than a stick, occasionally sometimes something tocut grass to feed his cattle,” says Buhari.In his first budget in 2016, Buhari allocated money for Fulaniherdsmen. He called for the establishment of cattle colonies forFulani in all the 36 states. In June 2018, Buhari called for theallocation of N170 billion for building cattle ranches all overNigeria for his Fulani herdsmen. Not long ago, he approved afederally-funded radio station for his Fulani kinsmen/herdsmen.Nothing, absolutely nothing, has been done by Buhari to stop thekillings by Fulani herdsmen. Rather, Buhari advocates for more moneyand land for Fulani herdsmen.What's Buhari doing to stop the killings by his kinsmen? What's Buharidoing to arrest and prosecute these savages? What's Buhari doing toprotect the lives and properties of Nigerians? What's Buhari doing toensure peace among the various warring ethnic groups in Nigeria?What's Buhari doing to protect Nigerians of the Christian faithagainst Sunni Muslim Fulani herdsmen terrorists? What's he doing toinvestigate the crimes of these animals and prosecute them? What'sBuhari doing to investigate the supply chain of AK–47s?What's Buhari doing to govern by fundamental democratic principles,ideas, and ideals? Nothing! Because he is a terrorist, he doesn’t givea damn!