Sixty-three-year-old Oluwatubosun Dahunsi has been arraigned in chiefmagistrate's court, Akure for macheting his wife to death in OndoState.The alleged killing was said to have taken place on October 5, 2019,at Ita Ipele in Owo Local Council Area of the State.The couple had five children together.Dahunsi is now facing a one-count charge of murder.The charge sheet said: “You, Mr. Dahunsi Oluwatubosun, ‘m’ on October5, 2019, at about 6:30 am at Ita-Ipele Camp via Owo in the Ondomagisterial district unlawfully macheted your wife, Funmilayo Dahunsi‘f’ on her two hands, head, stomach, neck and her jaw with cutlass todeath."The offence is contrary to section 316 and punishable under section319(1) of the Criminal Code Cap. 37 Volume 1 Laws of Ondo State ofNigeria, 2006.”Speaking while being cross-examined, Dahunsi blamed his action on thedevil and evil spirit.He explained to the court that he thought he was killing a goat whenhe macheted his wife to death.When the court asked the accused person if the victim (Funmilayo) didnot cry for help during the assault and why he did not stop after thefirst cut, Dahunsi said, "She cried for help. But at the point ofmacheting her, she sounded like that of a goat. So, I thought I wasactually killing a goat. It was after killing her that my eyes becameclear and I ran away."We only had a quarrel over our children's school fees. I never knewwhen I macheted her. It was after she died that I realized what I haddone. Please, have mercy on me and help me beg my children.“I don’t understand how it all happened. Please have mercy on me."Mr. Suleiman Abdulateef, the police prosecutor in the case, had toldthe court how an investigation into the alleged crime showed that theaccused used a cutlass to assault his wife to death.Abdulateef, however, sought an application from the court to remandthe accused in prison custody pending the director for publicprosecution's advice.The Chief Magistrate, Mrs. Charity Adeyanju, granted the prayer of theprosecutor and ordered the remand of the accused in the Olokuta PrisonCorrectional Centre's custody.The case was adjourned until January 13, 2020.