For the fourth consecutive year, President Muhammadu Buhari, theSultan of Sokoto, Muhammadu Saad Abubakar III, and the infamous BokoHaram leader, Abubakar Shekau, have been listed among the mostpowerful Muslims in the world.This is contained in a Muslim publication, The Muslim500 in its 2020edition, an annual compilation of the good, the bad, and the ugly inthe Islamic world, which was obtained by SaharaReporters today(Wednesday).Buhari is listed 17th and the Sultan, 20th most powerful Muslims andAbubakar Shekau, Boko Haram leader, is listed as one of the seven mostpowerful Muslim extremists in the world, in the latest report.Billionaire businessman and philanthropist, Aliko Dangote, and theEmir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, also made the list.Others are Egypt and Liverpool’s star player, Mohammed Salah; RealMadrid coach, Zinedine Zidane; and Manchester United’s Paul Pogba.According to the publication released on the Muslim500 website, Buharihas achieved much progress in the areas of corruption, economy, andsecurity in Nigeria.President Buhari, who has always been accused by his critics of beinga religious bigot, was described in glowing terms in the Muslim500report.The publication said of the president: “President Muhammadu Buhari wonhis second term as President of Nigeria in February 2019, beating hisrival by more than three million votes.”It noted further: “President Buhari began his military career at theNigerian Military Training School of Kaduna in 1963. He was involvedin military counter-coups in 1966 and 1975, and the coup of 1983 whichoverthrew the democratically-elected government and resulted in himbeing head of state for two years. During these years, he gained famefor his all-out war against corruption and indiscipline, a reputationhe has since kept. In 1985 he was overthrown and kept in detention forthree years."President Buhari ran as the main opposition candidate in thepresidential elections of 2003, 2007 and 2011, all ending in defeat,before winning in 2015. His platform was built around his image as astaunch anti-corruption fighter and his reputation for honesty andincorruptibility. He is considered an icon by the Muslims of northernNigeria, but enjoys nationwide respect due to his stance oncorruption.”Of Shekau, the publication said, "Shekau is the head of Boko Haram, aterrorist group in Nigeria that has carried out a number ofatrocities. He speaks Hausa, Arabic, and English, and claims to haveundergone theological training. He has appeared in videos postedonline, most notably after the kidnapping of over 200 schoolgirls inApril 2014."In March 2015, Boko Haram pledged allegiance to DA’ISH and stepped uptheir terror attacks, including a massacre of over 150 Muslims prayingin mosques during Ramadan. In August 2016, DA’ISH appointed Abu MusabAl-Barnawi as the group’s new leader, but Shekau refused to recognizeBarnawi’s authority. Unconfirmed reports of Shekau’s death areregularly disproved every few months."While commenting on the influence the Sultan wields in Nigeria, theMuslim500 report noted: “Amirul Mu’minin Sheikh as Sultan MuhammaduSa’adu Abubakar III is the 20th Sultan of Sokoto. As Sultan of Sokoto,he is considered the spiritual leader of Nigeria’s 85.5 millionMuslims, who account for roughly 50 percent of the nation’spopulation. Although the position of Sultan of Sokoto has becomelargely ceremonial, the holder is still a central figure for NigerianMuslims.”It added, "Abubakar holds important administrative influence inNigerian religious life. Abubakar is the titular ruler of Sokoto innorthern Nigeria and is also the head of the Nigerian National SupremeCouncil for Islamic Affairs."The leadership of this council means that the Sultan of Sokotoremains the only figure that can legitimately claim to speak on behalfof all Nigerian Muslims. This role has become increasingly influentialover the years with a rise in interreligious tensions betweenNigeria’s Muslim majority north and Christian-majority south."The latest report described Sanusi, the14th Fulani Emir of Kano, asthe second-highest "Muslim authority in the land (the Sultan of Sokotobeing the first)".Sanusi succeeded his late uncle Dr. Ado Bayero in 2014."He is the former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and arespected Islamic scholar who has won numerous awards. He has pointedout corruption in previous governments, pushed for an end to childmarriage and been a target for Boko Haram," said the publication.