The Nigeria Police Force has kept mum over the investigation andprosecution of suspects of the Offa armed robbery on April 5, 2018,resulting in the killing of more than a dozen people includingpolicemen, bank workers, and customers.The police have also not informed the public if the millions of nairastolen by the robbers have been recovered.Last December, the police said it had yet to recover the loot.Five suspects were later arrested and arraigned before Ilorin highcourt on the offence bordering on criminal conspiracy to rob thebanks, robbery of the banks, conspiracy to murder, the murder of ninepolicemen and other innocent citizens, and illegal possession offirearms.Efforts by SaharaReporters to confirm if the police have concluded theinvestigation and prosecution on the matter were unsuccessful asseveral calls made to the telephone of the police spokesman, FrankMba, were not answered.Mba also declined to respond to a text message sent to him.In March this year, a suspect facing trial for his alleged involvementin the April 5 bank robbery accused the police of forcing him toindict Senate President Bukola Saraki.The suspect, Friday Akininibosin, stated this while giving histestimony at a high court in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital.Akininibosin told the court that he had no personal knowledge ofSaraki before he was arrested and that a former policeman allegedlyinvolved in the robbery, Michael Adikwu, was killed for his inabilityto go with the alleged plan of the prosecutors.Shortly after the April 5 robbery, the police cited confessions madeby the accused persons during the investigation, as indicting Saraki.The police also said a picture of one of the accused at a wedding withSaraki emerged, linking the then-Senate president with the armedrobbers.According to the police, the suspects alleged to have worked aspolitical thugs for Saraki who allegedly supplied them withammunition.Saraki denied any wrongdoing and accused the police of victimizing him.Akininibosin retracted his earlier stance and accused the police ofmasterminding his confession which he claimed was written for him bysome policemen.“My hands and legs were tied to the back and suspended in between twotables by iron rod for like one hour 30 minutes. Then the seniorpolice officer, Abba Kyari, came around to tell me that I should saythat it was the Senate president that gave us guns to rob Offa banks,”Akininibosin said.“I told him my life is at stake here and that I wouldn’t do such.Then, he said I should do that for them and that they’ll pay me andthereafter set me free. I disagreed and was carried back to the cellon his instruction as I couldn’t walk.”The accused further revealed, “I was shot on my two legs. I was latertaken to Abba Kyari's office, where he asked to know if I was ready tocooperate and I said yes and pleaded not to kill me. The next day waswhen Michael Adikwu was brought to identify us and say what connectedus together. The dismissed officer said he didn’t know us and aftermuch torture, he was shot dead in our presence.”The police later confirmed Adikwu’s death in its custody but said hedied of natural causes.Akininibosin said a journalist was later brought in who took hisconfessional statement, allegedly made under duress.“I was panicky, thinking I was next to die. Later, a female TVjournalist was brought by a police officer with a note, saying thatwas what they wanted me to say, and that if not, I will 'travel',meaning, I would be killed.“That was how I agreed in the presence of the female journalist, whorecorded while I was also beaten at intervals.”In October 2018, the Kwara State government accused the Nigerianpolice of being economical with the truth regarding the April 2018robbery suspects in Offa.The police had reportedly blamed the attorney-general and commissionerfor justice for delaying the arraignment of the suspects.They said they had concluded investigations and sent the case file tothe Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice,Abubakar Malami, who directed that the file be sent to the stateAttorney-General.Reacting to the police statement in Ilorin, Attorney-General andCommissioner for Justice Kamaldeen Ajibade (SAN) described the policeutterances as ‘cheap blackmail'.Ajibade said: “I see this as a cheap blackmail by the police. Theyhave something to hide, which they are yet to tell Nigerians. I amsure at the end of the day, Nigerians will know what has transpired inthis matter. That is why the police are passing the buck."They can now see that Nigerians have started asking questions that ifyou’ve arrested suspects since April and they are yet to be arraigned,then there must be something about it. I urge people to ask questionsabout this matter.“I am surprised, particularly the statement coming from the policespokesman, Jimoh Moshood. Moshood, without being personal, is fromIlorin. He has contacts and I am sure he follows events in the KwaraCommand. He knows that the suspects are still with him at the policeheadquarters.“Why will he now mislead the public that we are yet to prosecute? Howcan you prosecute people kept in Abuja in Kwara State High Court? Itis not possible.”The attorney-general added, “I want to confirm to you that a letterwas written from the Office of the Director of the Public Prosecutionof the Federation under the Office of the Attorney-General of theFederation. My office received the letter on August 27.“The content of the letter had to do with the investigation report onthe Offa robbery and directing my office to take up the prosecution ofthe matter.“Immediately we received this letter on September 6, we wrote a letterthrough the Office of the State Director of the Public Prosecution tothe Office of the Attorney-General requesting them to provide for usthe original case diary in the Offa robbery and to transfer thesuspects to Kwara State Police Command. We waited for about threeweeks and did not hear anything from them.“I then met the AIG Legal, David Ogbodo and requested that theoriginal case diary be sent to Kwara to enable us to start prosecutionof the matter. I also requested him to send the suspects to KwaraState and he told me that he had directed the man in charge. That isAbba Kyari.“We waited for another week, we could not get anything from them. So,I directed my DPP to liaise with the police this time. He liaised withthe police both in the state and with Abbah Kyari. They promised everyday that they would send the suspects to Kwara and the original casediary, to no avail.“You cannot prosecute under the law without having the original casediary. You cannot even file a charge without the case diary and infiling a charge, you have to exhibit what we call proof of evidence.“This proof of evidence entails the statements of witnesses.Statements of witnesses in this sense, we are talking of the peoplethat investigated Offa robbers. We don’t have all this with us. Wedon’t have the suspects on the ground, we don’t have the witnesses onthe ground.“How do you file a charge? How do you prosecute people you cannot see?”