Hannatu Musawa At the core of the Next Level Agenda that characterized the manifestoof President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term was the policy to lift 100million Nigerians out of poverty in 10 years. The thrust of this isthe care of victims of the vast humanitarian crises that Nigeria hasbeen confronted with.It goes without saying that there’s no shortage of challenges ahead:For well over a decade now, Nigeria has been embroiled in a hugehumanitarian emergency occasioned by the Boko Haram insurgency,sectarian crisis, herders and farmers’ clashes, man made and naturaldisasters, banditry, erosion due to climate change, poverty,ignorance, economic inequality, illiteracy, trauma and post-traumaticstress disorder.The fallout of this is that a refugee crisis of monumental proportionshas occurred. Hundreds of thousands of helpless Nigerians have beendisplaced with refugees spattered in Nigeria and all across our porousborders. These refugees desperately need food, shelter, health careand humanitarian aid.To clear these hurdles, this administration is going to need anorganized structure, a policy framework, and the political will tomake an impact. And to accelerate that change, it will need a platformthat can bring all the requisite features together; a platform thatcan enact and enforce the necessary policies to address the challengesand crises that tens of thousands of helpless Nigerians face. It willneed medics, psychologists, sociologists, and researchers and localleaders, and academics and engineers; programmers, surgeons, andteaches, among others.And most important, apart from addressing the disasters andhumanitarian crisis, it will need to equip those that are saved withthe tools to be able to develop on their own. In providing thosetools, the administration will need to empower them with the abilityto learn new skills so they can help themselves, help theircommunities and deliver the country to the next generation.Perhaps this was the vision of the president when he created theMinistry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and SocialDevelopment. The ministry is designed to proffer resolutions for theplight of millions of Nigerians who are suffering and are the victimsof the huge humanitarian crisis in the country. There is no doubt thatwith the creation of this Ministry, there will be better coordinationof humanitarian services in Nigeria.Of all the Ministries created, none is as vital as this one, giventhat the stratosphere we are presently existing in is one ofmonumental crisis. It is the face of compassion for this governmentand if it succeeds, history will likely judge this administration asbeing a successful one. Such a structure is needed to overcome some ofthe challenges we face in our communities, especially for those of uswho have been struck with the misfortune of the disaster that has beenreplete in the Nigerian society.One does not need to recite here the history of poverty, thehumanitarian crisis and the situations of disaster in this country.But we do need to remind ourselves that so many of the disparitiesthat exist in our local communities today can be directly traced toinequalities passed on from an earlier generation that continues tosuffer under the brutal legacy of poverty. Hopefully, this specificministry can and will rise to such challenges.It’s no secret that many of us have not been overwhelmed by almost allthe governments in this fourth Republic. It doesn’t take a rocketscientist to decipher that a chunk of us have been jaded by some ofthe decisions and appointments made by these administrations. But Imust say that I am thoroughly excited about the creation of thisMinistry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and SocialDevelopment and President Buhari’s choice of Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouqto head it. I am excited because I know her character, her capabilityand her will to deliver.I have known Hajiya Sadiya for a very long time. We have the kind ofunbreakable sisterhood where we love each other very much and share atrust where we do not keep secrets from one another. And it is from myintimate knowledge of the kind of person that she is and the intentthat she has in her new role as the minister of Humanitarian Affairs,Disaster Management, and Social Development that gives me solace andpeace that, in this instance, President Buhari has knocked this oneout of the park.Not only did the president get it right by creating this much needednew ministry and merging it with the required components it needs ifit is going to be positioned to leave a lasting legacy, but he alsoappointed the perfect person to build and navigate it in the way itrequires.I’ve known this exciting new Minister in a professional, political,personal and academic capacity and can say unequivocally that she hasall the qualities needed to execute her role as the minister ofHumanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and Social Development.It’s been a minute since I’ve been excited about any governmentdecision. But I am excited about the possibilities of this one.For those who still don’t quite appreciate President Buhari’s choiceof Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq as the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs,Disaster Management, and Social Development, the case for her is apowerful one. In her professional, academic and political capacity,she ticks all the boxes.It's an illusion to think that she was just some random politicianthat was picked out of the crowd. She was deeply immersed in all thedetail of the 17-year movement that brought her father to power, andall its intrigues and technicalities. From a political vantage point,Hajiya Sadiya has gone beyond cutting her political teeth. She is notjust a daughter to the president.Hajiya Sadiya was always interested in politics and the decision tonavigate towards General Buhari’s political movement was an easy onefor her because she was extremely close friends with some of hischildren. Growing up within the same vicinity and appreciating Gen.Buhari’s qualities, which shone in his daughters, it was easy forHajiya Sadiya to navigate towards the movement of this father figure.Hajiya Sadiya’s extraordinary loyalty, hard work, and composure madeher stand out in Gen. Buhari’s political movement. Bold, honorable,principled, hardworking, loyal, determined, brilliant, smart, braveand tireless in her resolve to take on the might of the oppositionparty and the cause for change, which Nigerians yearned for, sheinspired a hesitant collective and stood behind the man whoseleadership she could see beyond her close friend’s father and thefather she had known most of her life.She is very optimistic, the fundamental belief at its core that thepeople of Nigeria, for all our varied backgrounds and outwarddiffer­ences, could come together to build a better tomorrow. Shestill believes that. She believes we can work together to do bigthings that raise the fortunes of the Nigerian people. She is a decentand honorable woman, as well as a charming one, and it was thesequalities, not just her loyalty and steadfastness that has taken herto where she is today.I am so proud the President Buhari was able to look beyond her in thecapacity of his daughter and seeing a brilliant administrator with theability to deliver. By doing this, he has gone out of his way to giveleadership to a person who can respond to the humanitarian crisis inthe country, not only in a professional way but in a manner thatempowers her to execute her role while being unafraid to take issuewith him when the need arises. It is a breath of fresh air for thePresident to surround himself with a person who can challenge him andquestion his assumptions. And I know that, as his daughter, she willhave the confidence to do so.Perhaps, one of the most innovative aspects of this new Ministry isthe inclusion of Social Development to its trajectory. It just simplymakes sense! After responding to the humanitarian needs of the victimsand managing the fallout of the disaster, it is necessary to put inplace and equip those affected with the support and tools needed todevelop on their own. Unless this is done, then, in time, the disastergoes back to square one. With time, it would be as if no humanitarianneed or disaster was managed. For the full completion of the response,those affected must be empowered after they have been saved.This realization seems to be a very clear one for the president whoreinforced it in his Independence Day Speech, where he articulatedthat the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, andSocial Development was specifically created to consolidate and buildon the achievements of the Ongoing N500 billion Special InterventionProgram, which targets vulnerable groups, through the Home-grownSchool Feeding Programme, Government Economic Empowerment Programme,N-Power Job Creation Programme, loans for traders and artisans,Conditional Cash Transfers to the poorest families and social housingscheme.With this pronouncement, the Ministry for Humanitarian Affairs,Disaster Management, and Social Development will now directly beoverseeing the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP), thebillion Naira social welfare scheme. No longer is this schemedomiciled in the vice president’s office. It now lives under theMinistry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and SocialDevelopment.Another important advantage of Social Development being domiciled inthis ministry as opposed to it being under the Vice Presidency is theneed for longevity and legacy. Unless this very important scheme findsa structured home under a Ministry, there is the risk of it fizzlingout at the expiration of this administration since any subsequentgovernment will not be under any obligation to inherit any policy ofthe vice president's office. By moving it to the Ministry ofHumanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development,President Buhari has effectively protected and saved it.While establishing this Ministry will be daunting, as a former federalcommissioner of the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants, andInternally Displaced Persons since September 26, 2016, Hajiya Sadiyais up to the task.The humanitarian challenges facing this fractured nation seemsendless. Between insecurity, the fallout from disasters poverty,financial prosperity, even stability feels increasingly out of reachto many Nigerians: Today, far more people are more pessimistic thanoptimistic about life for the next generation of Nigerians. Butsomehow, somewhere hope arises in the form of a Ministry formed tocater to the less privileged. And to top it off, it will be led by anabsolute lady of substance, a daughter to a President who sees hercapability to deliver.Hajiya Sadiya is well-equipped to mobilize local and internationalsupport for the government’s work in the humanitarian and disastermanagement sectors. She is more than capable to coordinate all theparastatals and agencies under her Ministry to confront the challengesof displacement, insurgency, banditry, flood, fire, poverty and othereffects of the disaster.Since Hajiya Sadiya took up the mantle of leadership at the helm ofthe Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and SocialDevelopment as the honorable minister, she has hit the ground running.And this is all despite the challenges faced, some of which include anextremely delayed mandate, lack of official staff and no office spaceor accommodation. Despite everything, she has managed to make it workthrough hard work, innovation, tact, and selflessness.Because I know and trust her, I’m confident that she will not let herposition as the close friend of the children of the President or thedaughter of the President Buhari obstruct or deter her. She seesherself as a National servant called up to do her civic duty, workingfor the Nigerian people. And I know that she will apply herself to thevery best that is humanly possible and, By Allah’s will, have asuccessful outing. I often joke to her that no longer can she justconsider President Buhari as a father anymore, now she can trulyconsider him as a boss as well. This, she firmly agrees.Hajiya Sadiya is truly one of a kind. The kind of citizen we desire tosee contribute their quota in moving this country forward. She iskind, brilliant, pious, thoughtful, smart, funny, charming,considerate, brave, focused, principled, honest, generous,God-fearing, witty, honorable, innovative, bold, hard-working and somuch more. I am truly excited to see what she will bring to the table.Kudos to the president for, not only creating this much-neededministry, but for having the foresight of making a choice from one ofhis own; from choosing his capable daughter, Hajiya Sadiya UmarFarouq, to reach out to Nigerians affected by humanitarian crisis anddisaster, in trying to lift as many people out of poverty as possibleand empowering them with social development.May Allah continue to guide Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq.Twitter @hanneymusawa