Niger Delta militants
Tife Owolabi As the bloody crisis rocking the Uzere community, Isoko South localgovernment area of Delta state continues, the armed Niger Delta youthsunleashing terror on the community, are said to be allegedly operatingfrom the country home of a former Chief of Defence Staff and Chief ofArmy Staff, General Alexander Ogomudia (retd).Indigenes who had fled the community told SaharaReporters on Wednesdaythat the self-styled 'freedom fighters' youths operated from the homeof Ogomudia, considered one of their backers.A secondary teacher, who spoke on the condition of anonymity said,"Over 40 percent of the armed youths are Sam Ogri boys, while othersare Gen. Ogomudia boys. David, an aide to Ferguson Onwo, the memberrepresenting Isoko South constituency II in the state house ofAssembly is also among the armed youths unleashing the mayhem in thecommunity."Some in the community fingered the President General of the IsokoDevelopment Union, Iduh Amadhe, as a major sponsor of the armedconflict in a bid to bring a deposed traditional ruler, Odogri, backinto the community which the people including Ogomudia resisted.The so-called freedom fighters were said to be controlling thecommunity despite alleged presence of security operatives.Reacting to the allegation levelled against him, Ogomudia, who accusedthe Isoko South local government chairman, Itiako Ikpokpo, of beingone of the community's troublemakers, said: "I am based in Lagos, thecrisis is there and is being instigated by those God has blessed. Howcan anyone say I supply arms and harbour the youths in my compound?These are stupid people who are only interested in denting the imageof people. I have risen to the top of the armed forces of thiscountry, and I commanded it creditably well."Boko Haram could have started in my time but I nailed it and somejokers in the community now think the best thing in retirement is forme to be supplying arms. I don't live in Uzere. I live in Lagos. I wastold no weapon was used."He added, "If the weapons were flowing so much because Gen. Ogomudiawas privileged to be in the army and they are jealous, they can go anddie. At least nobody in that community helped me to rise to the top ofthe armed forces. It was my efforts; I built my name myself. So, nobastard is going to spoil it."However, Ikpokpo said: "Whoever that is alleging that I am part of thecrisis in the Uzere community is irresponsible and doesn't know thefact of the issues, or doesn't live around here. I have a duty andresponsibility to see that there is peace and order in the localgovernment."The crisis in Uzere is nothing but the traditional stool and mostrecent is the oil money from NPDC been hijack by some of the leadersboth past and present. Before now there have been armed youths whocalled themselves 'Freedom Fighters', who are enjoying the backing ofsome powerful forces in the community and unleashing mayhem."In August, we suspended the community annual conference because therewas serious tension over the N20 million from NPDC meant for youthsempowerment which was tempered with by the former PG of the town andwe discovered that the suspended current PG was also part of thetension. The sponsored 'freedom fighter' went and burnt down thevehicle belonging to the community youths."We have very prominent people from Uzere, and we have called for apeace meeting but General Ogomudia has refused to honour any of ourinvitations, he is insisting that he will not sit down with hisbrothers and sisters from Uzere and find a lasting peace to the wholeissue, is that right, he's supposed to be a father, leader and showexample."The security also had the information that the self-claimed freedomfighters are taking refuge in Gen. Ogomudia's compound. But I hope andpray it is not true because at his level such cannot happen. I doubt.He can't involve in such a thing. In fact, no community has the rightto groom any terrorist group in my local government."