First Lady Aisha Buhari First Lady of Nigeria, Aisha, on Wednesday received new sets of aides from her husband, President Muhammadu Buhari. The appointments were announced in a statement by her Director of Information, Suleiman Haruna. The appointees are Dr Mairo Almakura, Special Assistant (African First Ladies Peace Mission); Muhammed Albishir, Special Assistant (Organisation of African First Ladies for Development); and Wole Aboderin, Special Assistant (Non-Governmental Organisations). Shortly after the announcement was made, Aisha apologised to Nigerians and her immediate family over the embarrassment that a video showing her had caused. The statement reads, “Commenting on the video circulating on social networks, (Aisha) Buhari extended her apology to her children, immediate family members and all well-meaning Nigerians over the embarrassment that it had caused.” On Tuesday, Fatima, daughter of Mamman Daura, President Buhari’s nephew, has accused the First Lady of almost physically attacking her inside Aso Villa in Abuja. The lady made the allegation while commenting on a video where Mrs Buhari was seen complaining about being denied access to her residence. Fatima said she recorded the video as proof that Buhari’s wife assaulted her. She said, “On that day I filmed the video, my mom and dad were not around. So, my dad instructed I and my elder sister to move our belongings to a new apartment inside the Villa. “All of a sudden, as we were busy packing our belongings, we heard noise from outside. “On getting there, we realised it was the wife of the President. When she came, the door was locked and she picked a metal chair and broke the door. “My sister who went outside was almost hit by the chair. She threw the chair which broke through the door and almost hit my sister. “I was so shocked and afraid of getting outside because the First Lady was shouting and cursing, saying we should move out of that apartment. "She had already said a lot of things depicting that she was being suppressed. "I recorded the incident to show our parents and the security, so that they will know the truth should anything happen.”