AfDB President, Akinwumi Adesina In this interview with Nigerian journalists on the sidelines of theWorld Bank/International Monetary Fund annual meetings in the UnitedStates of America, the President of the African Development Bank, Dr.Akinwumi Adesina, talks about how women and youths to excel in theirenterprises. Excerpts: What's AfDB doing to support women?We are supporting women. I think when Africa gets the issue of women'srights, it will get everything right. And so there is the issue ofaccess of women to financing that we provide through AffirmativeFinance Action for Women in Africa (AFAWA). This will help to mobilize$3 billion for businesses for women on the continent.The other one is that we actually supported another fund which iscalled the Alethia Identity Fund, which has just closed at $75 millionand that is to support growth capital for the businesses for women. Soin other words, the small, medium and large businesses for women arewhat we are supporting. Finally, I will like to see financialinstitutions in Africa being held fully accountable when it comes tofinancing women.And so the bank will be launching what we call the Women FinancingIndex for Africa in which all financial institutions in Africa will berated based on their lending to women. So, both in terms of the volumeof lending, in terms of the terms of lending and in terms of thedevelopment impact of their lending for women. So, those who lend moreto women will get more resources from us at a discounted rate from us,so you can lend more and have more impact for women.So, we are focused massively on how we can drive investments forwomen. That’s a big issue for us, just to give you an update on that.We raised $251 million from the G7 leaders when I was in Biarritz withPresident Macron. It was great.Can you elaborate on the Green Capital thing that the AfricaDevelopment Bank launched recently? What is it about?Let me just say more generally as a bigger issue, when it comes todriving green growth on the continent. I believe that achieving greengrowth on the continent is not an externally imposed issue, it is inAfrica’s interest to actually have green growth, to have clean air,clean water and to grow in an environment where people have a goodquality of life.And so, you can have GDP growth but if you are having GDP growth inwhich it’s occurring huge amount of emissions, pollution of water, ofair, it’s not improving the life of anybody. So, anybody telling me inany part of the world that my GDP is growing, that is not my concern.My question is: is at what cost? What does it mean for the lives ofpeople?So, for us at the bank, we are very big on renewable energy. Today, wehave doubled climate finance as an institution from $12 billion to $25billion by 2025. Secondly, about 50 percent of our climate financingis on climate adaptation. Because you see a lot of droughts, you see alot of floods, you see all of these extreme weather patterns that arehappening. So, we are actually doing a lot of that to supportcountries to adapt to climate change.The other thing, of course, is that we have just launched aninitiative which is called Desert to Power, meant to provide universalaccess to electricity all across the 11 countries in the Sahelian Zoneof West and Central Africa.The Sahelian Zone has the least access to electricity, but it also hasthe highest problems in terms of migration towards Europe. It also hasthe highest problem in terms of insecurity and fragility, and thehighest challenge in terms of fertility rate. If you look at the birthrate in Niger, for example, that has almost 0.8 percent of ruralaccess rate for electricity, the fertility rate is 7.2 per woman,which is one of the highest in the world. So, there is a directcorrelation or association between not having electricity and risingfertility rate.What we have done is that we are leading this effort that will provideelectricity for 250 million people across the 11 countries and 90million of those will be through off-grid systems because of thesparse populations there. It is our biggest effort, and it’s going tobe the world’s largest solar zone. We are not just talking about it.We have started in Burkina Faso with a project called Yellen RuralElectrification Project which is a solar-based project we are doingwith Agence Française de Développement (AFD), the French Agency forDevelopment. We also have another one we’ve done in Chad that iscalled Djameya Solar Power Plant Project. We have in Mali and otherplaces as well.And of course, this will include northern Nigeria because we areworking on a 1,000 megawatts solar power project that is going to bein Jigawa. So we take the whole of the Sahelian part of that.Just to conclude on that, we have launched something that’s called theGreen Based Loan Facility, a $500 million facility that will allow usto support countries that want to move out of dependency on coal orother fossil-based energy sources towards renewable energy, so that weare able to provide you financing at a cheaper cost to be able to makethat transition.What will be the criteria for eligibility for the Green Based Loan facility?It is open for any country that wants to have access to it. It is thatyou must have a bankable project that can use it and you will meet allthe conditions that the bank will normally require, but it is an openthing for any of the countries willing and interested in doing it,even the private sector by the way.What is the total climate fund that AfDB has committed in Nigeria inrecent times, say within the last three years?The issue for us with climate finance is we build climate finance intoour projects. For example, if you take the case I just mentioned toyou now, we are supporting the development of a thousand megawatts ofsolar that is going to be in the Jigawa area, which is huge for us. Weprovided as well for the evacuation of power in Nigeria with theTransmission Company of Nigeria.We provided them with $200 million that can support the evacuation ofpower and that is a big problem in Nigeria because of the liquiditycrisis that is in the energy sector. We have also provided support tothe Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading (NBET) so it can meet some ofits own payment requirements to those supplying them with gas.The other thing that we are doing obviously that is linked to theclimate in Nigeria is in the north of Nigeria where we have put about$253 million into the North-east area project because a lot of thechallenges we are facing are linked to climate: population growth,urbanization, climate, and environmental degradation. So, some of thechallenges you find, the fragility you find in that part of thecountry comes from that. That’s why we built climate finance into ourfinancing in the sector.