Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari and his South African counterpart,Cyril Ramaphosa, have issued a joint communique on the former's statevisit to the latter and the inaugural session of the elevated BNCbetween South Africa and Nigeria in Pretoria.Full Text Of Communique 1. At the invitation of the President of the Republic of South Africa,His Excellency, Cyril Ramaphosa; His Excellency, Muhammadu Buhari,President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, paid a State Visit toSouth Africa from 02 - 04 October 2019, and attended the inauguralsession of the elevated Bi-National Commission (BNC), as part ofcontinuing bilateral engagements aimed at strengthening and deepeningcooperation between South Africa and Nigeria.2. President Buhari was accompanied by a high-level delegationcomprising State Governors, Ministers, and Senior GovernmentOfficials.3. The two Heads of State reviewed a wide range of bilateral,continental and global issues of common interest. They acknowledgedthe historical and strategic relations that exist between the twocountries, and the need to further strengthen the ties of friendshipand cooperation.4. The two Presidents noted with satisfaction the continued exchangeof high-level visits and meetings between the two countries. In thisregard, they recalled the successful working visit of PresidentRamaphosa to Nigeria in July 2018, during which the two Heads of Statereaffirmed their collective desire and commitment to enhancepolitical, economic and social relations between the two countries.5. The two Presidents appreciated the vast nature of the twocountries’ bilateral cooperation which covers, amongst others; Tradeand Investment, Energy, Mining, Defence and Security issues, Justice,Police, Immigration, Tourism, Environment, Education, transport aswell as Science and Technology. In this regard, the two Presidentstook note of the thirty-two (32) signed Agreements and Memoranda ofUnderstanding (MoUs), and committed themselves to ensure that thosewhich are in force are fully implemented while those which are not yetin force are to be revived for implementation.6. Both Presidents noted with great satisfaction the economiccooperation between the two Republics and welcomed the steps toincrease trade volumes as well as private sector investments. Theywelcomed the important role of the Business Forum, which took place onthe margins of the State Visit. The two leaders further welcomed thedecision to establish a Joint Ministerial Advisory Council onIndustry, Trade, and Investment. The inaugural meeting of the Councilwould be held not later than April 2020, in Abuja. The Council isexpected to serve as a critical vehicle in facilitating and promotingprivate sector participation in the economies of both countries.7. Both leaders took note of the significant footprint of SouthAfrican businesses operating in Nigeria in sectors such astelecommunications, mining, aviation, banking and finance, retail,property, entertainment and fast food industries. They also noted andwelcomed the business activities of Nigeria’s small, micro and mediumenterprises, as well as the investment of Dangote Sephaku Cement inSouth Africa.8. President Ramaphosa used the opportunity of the meeting to briefPresident Buhari on the recent incidents of violence in South Africaaffecting foreign nationals. He also alluded to the fact that theseunfortunate incidents are not consistent with the values andprinciples underpinning South Africa’s constitutional democracy.9. President Ramaphosa also dispelled the notion that incidents ofviolence affecting foreign nationals were targeted at Nigeriannationals, as other foreign nationals and indeed South Africans wereaffected as well. The President assured his counterpart that the SouthAfrican Government was fully in control of the situation and severalinterventions including engagements with the diplomatic community andémigré communities, security operations, policy, and legislationreviews were underway.10. Both Presidents strongly condemned the attacks against foreignnationals including Nigerians in South Africa and the reprisal actionsagainst South Africans and their interests in Nigeria. They expresseda strong commitment to take all necessary measures to stop arecurrence of these attacks which they said undermine the vision of astrong and prosperous Africa that the two countries have for thecontinent.11. President Ramaphosa further stated that South Africa is anintegral part of the African continent and, in this context advocatesfor a peaceful, vibrant and sustainable Africa, and that as Africans,we all have a shared commitment to foster peace and greatercontinental unity. He further said that we should never forget thatour fellow Africans have contributed to developing our economy, andthat of the region and similarly South Africans are helping to developeconomies across the continent.12. Both Presidents condemned these violent incidents and thedestruction of property and reiterated their call for heightened lawenforcement. They stressed the importance of high-level engagements onthis unfortunate phenomenon as demonstrated by the reciprocal dispatchof Special Envoys by both countries. In this regard, the twoPresidents endorsed the establishment of an Early Warning Mechanismand directed the two Foreign Ministers to give practical expression tothe Early Warning Mechanism to be used as a preventative andmonitoring platform.13. The two Presidents further endorsed the reestablishment of theRepublic of South Africa and the Federal Republic of Nigeria consularForum to meet twice a year.14. At the Continental level, the two Presidents exchanged views onthe current political, economic and security situation in theirrespective regions. They also expressed their grave concern on theongoing instability in some of the countries on the Continent andstrongly condemned the continued terrorist and extremist activities.15. Both leaders reaffirmed their commitment to working together inpursuit of sustainable peace and economic development on the continentin the context of AU Agenda 2063 and the African Continental FreeTrade Area Agreement (AfCFTA).16. On the international front, President Ramaphosa seized theopportunity of the meeting to congratulate Nigeria as the currentChair of the 74th Session of the United Nations General Assembly(UNGA). In the same vein, President Buhari also congratulated SouthAfrica as the President of the United Nations Security Council for themonth of October 2019 and as the upcoming chair of the African Unionfor the year 2020. They reiterated their call for the reform of theUnited Nations Security Council.17. President Buhari expressed gratitude for the warm reception andhospitality accorded to him and his delegation. He also took theopportunity to invite President Ramaphosa to pay a reciprocal visit tothe Federal Republic of Nigeria on a date to be jointly agreed andcommunicated through diplomatic channels.18. In conclusion, the two Presidents reaffirmed the strategicrelations that exist between the two sister Republics and committedthemselves to work together to further enhance close political,economic and social cooperation in the interest of their people andthe continent.Done in Pretoria, South Africa, 03 October 2019Issued by: The Presidency